# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srh95hwkm7Rbjfy

7856220 -372110 0 0 UWE ITE Lesson Plan Template 2 0 22 Date: xxxx Year group/class: 6R No. of students: 31 Duration: 60 mins Monday/ 60 Min Tuesday Time: 9.30 Monday 2,00 Tuesday Topic: Science Face-to-Face Learning Whole-Class TA support MA in room Which of your SMART targets are you addressing with this lesson? Keeping introduction to 15 mins. Increase activity for pupils. Increase modelling for pupils. Prior knowledge/misconceptions Light bends around corners We see by a beam coming out of our eyes. Literacy (for example disciplinary literacy / Key terms) Reflection/ refraction/ light sources/ opaque/transparent/translucent. Curriculum Links (Assessment) Light Yr 6 NC Science Working scientifically- Planning a scientific enquiry. Learning objectives What is the intended learning? Knowledge: Light travels in straight lines. Skills: Planning an enquiry using the post it method- controlling variables -186690 38100 0 0 Success criteria How will pupils/students know if they have met the learning objective? Or what do the pupils/students have to do to achieve success. Successful planning of enquiry identifying one variable to change and a way to measure outcome. Monday . Drawing of investigation indicating light travelling in straight line . Tuesday -196215 59055 0 0 Assessment strategies How will you find out what pupils/students have learnt? Review of workbooks and planning sheets Timings ( Intended ) Learning activities ( Linking back to the LO, Success Criteria, What the Teacher input is, what is the learner doing? Signposting Independent Activities) Adaptive Teaching (Holistic approach- how will you ensure ALL students are able to access learning?) Resources (Physical or online) 9.30 Monday Introduction- Small section of Peter pan sewing on shadow. Do you think shadows are fixed to us. What do you think happens to your shadow when the light goes off? Do you think it is still there? ( Talk Partners) Drawing how we see when reading a book under a light- Remind children to put name on work. Pre-teaching vocabulary to D.G, F.B and Y.M. Small pieces of paper . Video clip 9.40 Demonstration of laser pen in tank of milky water – light travelling. Use of mirrors to show reflection . What do you think is happening to the light ? Tank, milk, laser pen 9.45 Walking in front of the projector. Where do you think the light is now? Is it on the screen? What will happen to the shadow if you walk nearer the screen? 9.55 Modelling planning the enquiry of exploring the size of shadows. using the post -it method of planning science. Identifying and controlling variables. 10.10 Pupils in groups to identify variables and question. MA to work with D.G, F.B and Y.M. Get pupil to scribe for G.k Post it planning charts, post its, pens . 10.20 Stop – show -praise. Feedback on groups questions and variables. Identify good features of pupil planning. Pupils to plan rest for Tuesday 10.30 Collect in plans. Break time Evaluation of pupils’/students’ learning. What progress did pupils make against Learning O bjectives and Success criteria ? Include any relevant aspects of literacy, numeracy, digital and thinking skills . Refer to groups of pupils/students and/or individuals (by initials) D.G, F.B and Y.M used pre-taught vocabulary with M.A. All groups came up with an enquiry plan. Orange group needed support with how to measure outcomes. All class except V.B, G. B and D.G drew beams coming out of eyes to see. Plan in some experiences of trying to see in a dark cupboard. Pupils may need to see range of equipment available to help with planning. Ready for enquiry on Tuesday. Watch orange group for measurement of outcome. Evaluation of your own Teaching What went well? Why? Introduction was much more interactive with pupil activity after 15 mins. Use of modelling for activity. Laser demonstration and projector walking. Pupil were much more involved and excited by the practical experiential element Pupils were clear about controlling and identifying variables. Raised interest and gave concrete examples of light in straight lines. Even better if… Why? Modelling how we might measure the outcome of the shadow enquiry. D.G, F.B were less distracted in introduction Pupils were unsure of how to approach this or what to measure. Split them up. Sit D.G, F.B next to me during introduction. Where next? Targets for pupils’ /students’ learning Need to keep linking activity/enquiry to scientific knowledge. What key actions will you take? Link back to laser activity and compare enquiry results with the shadow activity.
