# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srcbj87bqcmW73c

Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 864235 9541510 0 0 Introduction Th is handbook will provide you with important information about your programme and life as a student at UWE . Please note that the electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information, please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. The information in the handbook may also be provided in a number of other electronic or paper sources and this document provides links to the definitive data sources wherever possible. [Add other relevant links here] [To update table of contents and page numbers below, click into the table until the tab update table appears (just above the word ‘content’, click update table then select page numbers only]. Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Introduction PAGEREF _Toc170138499 \h 2 Our commitment to you PAGEREF _Toc170138500 \h 3 Communication PAGEREF _Toc170138501 \h 3 Programme information PAGEREF _Toc170138502 \h 3 Advice and Support PAGEREF _Toc170138503 \h 4 Regulations/Policies PAGEREF _Toc170138504 \h 6 Health and Safety PAGEREF _Toc170138505 \h 7 Insurance Guidelines PAGEREF _Toc170138506 \h 7 Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts PAGEREF _Toc170138507 \h 10 Our commitment to you We want to help you make the most of your experience of student life at UWE Student Futures Manifesto – The Ten - Student information | UWE Bristol Communication The main communication channel used by the University is the UWE student portal, myUWE . The myUWE link appears at the top of the University staff and student intranet home page alongside that of the library and gives you access to the portal, where much of the information relevant to you will appear, including important announcements. MyUWE gives you access to a wide range of course information, including links to Blackboard for modules you are currently studying. Blackboard provides the main communication channel for module specific information and should be checked regularly for new content and announcements. Also from myUWE you can access your UWE student email account, which you are expected to check regularly (at least twice a week) as this is the email address that the University will use to contact you. If you do not activate this account, or choose to automatically forward emails to a different email account, then the University will not be responsible if you miss important information such as details about classes, assessments, examinations, fees, registration etc. You can find more information on all aspects of your myUWE portal on the website. Programme information The Programme Specification The specific aims of the iPGCE programme are to: Critically evaluate pedagogical theories underpinning a range of best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally to inform effective evidence-informed classroom practice. Critically explore the ways in which their values, beliefs and experiences impact on themselves and their role as practitioner Critically engage with the policy, cultural and social contexts of students' lives and respond to these in practice as appropriate. Apply, critique and adapt professional understanding, skills and attributes relevant to a range of contexts Critically engage with relevant research and current debates in education to inform and develop their practice. Evidence and critically reflect on their professional competencies to identify continuing Professional development needs . Underlying principles The overall approach is student - centred and based on the assumption that individuals choosing to study at postgraduate level are highly motivated. The teaching and learning strategy is designed to promote active learning and stimulate integration, exploration, and innovation. The modules are taught through online content. This will include : narrated presentations, self-directed learning activities (including designated reading), problem-based learning, discussion forums, wikis, asynchronous feedback opportunities. All students will have a UWE tutor contact who will offer support through online discussion and interactive online seminars. Students will also be expected to undertake independent learning to build their specialist knowledge relevant to their current or future professional lives . The modules include private study weeks , when students will have an opportunity to carry out independent study and review previous taught contents and materials. The study weeks are planned in recognition of the fact that many students have professional or personal commitments in addition to their studies. Our students leave our c ourse s ready to become more reflective , creative teachers . To attain the expected standards, it is important for students to be conversant with topical areas of education . Students are also expected to engage with academic literature , which will be signposted in the modules . You are therefore expected to undertake your own independent reading and practical learning activities to support your studies. Curriculum Structure This programme is provided through online learning and part-time study . Modules 1 and 2 are taught over a period of 20 weeks, which includes two weeks of private study. For each of these modules you should anticipate spending approximately five hours per two week s studying , plus time on your assessments. Please note that teaching dates may not always align with the usual university terms. Please refer to individual module guides for specific details on teaching and assessment dates. Criteria for Awards All modules on this programme are compulsory. The programme is thus delivered as follows: MODULE 1 Teaching and Learning In this module Students will critically engage with a range of literature relating to a variety of contemporary international pedagogical approaches and their contexts, recognising their implications for learning and teaching approaches. Students will critically explore and examine how teachers evaluate the learning needs of both individuals and groups and use this to plan appropriate teaching and learning activities that promote high expectations and progress for all learners. Students will assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work. Students will reflect upon and evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the impact of these within their teaching role. Students will analyse and articulate a developed understanding of the purposes, forms and impact of Curricula. Through critical exploration and reflection, they will consider the ways in which policy, social and cultural contexts of education and those of pupils’ lives can influence their learning well-being and behaviours. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at Level 6 ) MODULE 2 Contextual Inquiry In this module students will critically reflect on their own practice in the context of their own education experiences, with particular reference to their present setting role. Students will be given tools to reflect and engage with their practice and asked to evidence this on both their professional development and how this might impact on setting practice and pupils’ outcomes within their sociocultural context. Peer support and flexibility in assessment will support students in developing a focus in their chosen area for study. These might include behaviour management, working with parents, adapted planning. Content will be provided to drive discussion, but students will be sharing their own experiences as part of this to ensure that there is a wide range of relevant material to inform learning. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at level 6 ) You are asked to pay particular attention to assessment dates and ensure you check with your programme team if you are unsure when assessments are due. You are expected to be available during these periods and absence from scheduled assessments may have a significant impact on your studies. Please take care to avoid these dates , including resits, when planning any holidays. Module Start Date End of Teaching Assessment Hand in Assessment Feedback return Field Board Resit dates In the Resit period as defined for Dept for Edu REGISTRATION : up to 18.08.25 Learning and Teaching UTLGXF-30-M September 1st 30 th of Jan 2026 Assessment A 18 th Dec Assessment B 11 th Feb 2026 Jan 2024 Feb 2026 Feb 2026 March 2026 Contextual Enquiry ULGXG-30-M 16 th Feb 7 th July 2026 Assessment A 27th May Assessment B 7th of July July2026 November The academic year dates are published on the University website . Changes to your Programme We strive, and are expected, to continually enhance our Programmes by responding to feedback from students and other Stakeholders, ensuring the curriculum is kept up to date and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and skills they need. We may make any such changes to our Programmes without consulting you if the changes will not involve a Material Change. There may be circumstances where we have to make a Material Change to the Material Information. In these circumstances, we will give you advance notice of the change and inform you about how this change will impact on your Programme and work with you to ensure you understand the reasons for, and the effect of, the change. A Material change would be a change to the programme from t he information we provided to you when we made you an offer of a place on your Programme, which includes: the published details of your Programme , including: Programme title; entry requirements; what you will study (for example core modules ); method of study (for example, lectures, seminars, work placements); expected workload including number of contact hours and expected self-study; the overall assessment strategy for your Programme (not a change to the balance of assessment within individual modules ); the award you will receive on successful completion of your Programme; location of study or possible locations; length of your Programme; whether your Programme is accredited by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB). Examples of reasons for making a Material Change to your Programme may include: a commissioning or accrediting body requires us to add new course content to your Programme; in response to feedback from stakeholders or our students; where there is an insufficient number of students applying to the Programme/module of a Programme to make running the Programme or module impractical to provide a suitable student experience and/or financially viable; to reflect the introduction of new technologies; where staff have taken extended leave or left the University; following changes to the funding we receive or that students may be eligible for; Government legislation . Where we wish to make a material change your rights are defined within the University’s Terms and Conditions Advice and Support Academic Support Academic Support is provided through a number of roles and students should seek advice from academic staff on specific matters relating to teaching and learning. Programme Leader programme related issues, issues impacting on a number of modules within the programme, programme specific activities happening outside modules Module Leader module related issues, issues that affect that module only Academic Personal Tutor broader issues relating to teaching and learning at the University. See the website for further information about the Academic Personal Tutor . Online resources and learning support, together with advice from Library Services on managing references and improving your learning, writing and research skills are available. If you need help with a particular mathematical or statistical problem, then just pop along to an espressoMaths session , sit down at the espressoMaths table, and have a chat with one of the staff on duty; this person will be able to provide you with free user-friendly advice concerning your problem. There is advice available relating to study-related issues including assessments, and if there are circumstances affecting your ability to study . Advice is available on transferring courses , taking time out or withdrawing from study. Student support The University also provides support to students relating to a range of matters through the Information Points and Student Support Advisers. Student Experience Coaches can provide help you with your university experience outside of the classroom https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/student-experience-coaches Tuition fees and information on bursaries and scholarships . Residents’ guides and accommodation options . Advice and guidance for international students at UWE . Preparing to go on placement whilst at UWE. Advice on opportunities for placements or finding placements. Wellbeing advice, from staying healthy to counselling . HYPERLINK "https://www.uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/equality-diversity-and-inclusivity" Information on Equality and Diversity Explore and practice faith and spirituality at UWE . Student voice Information on student feedback and surveys . Link for information for the Students Union and how to become a student representative. Post graduation support Information to help you in preparing for your final year can be found on the website. Prepare for life after university with Careers advice and guidance before, during and after your studies. Regulations/Policies Regulations The University regulations are designed to ensure consistency and equity for all students and to provide clarity in how you will be treated by the University in any given situation. Please see the UWE website for more information about how your degree will be calculated . In addition to the academic regulations, you should pay particular attention to the IT Acceptable Use Policy as this defines what you can or cannot do for the protection of systems and of individual users. Assessment Offences In order to ensure that all students are assessed fairly and equitably, it is important that markers are able to be sure it is your own work which is being assessed and that all your assessed work is done within the University rules and regulations. If a marker or invigilator believes that you have committed an assessment offence this will be reported and the allegation will have to be investigated. The University take s the committing of assessment offences very seriously. Action is always taken to investigate and follow through any such cases that are reported. Further information, including the Assessment Offences Policy, can be found on the Academic integrity webpages. An assessment offence is defined by the University as ‘ any action which has the potential to give a student an unfair advantage in an assessment.’ Plagiarism , collusion , and contract cheating are examples of the use of unfair means of presenting work for assessment. Plagiarism – Demonstrating that you have read a wide range of material (books, journals or other sources) in writing a piece of coursework is essential but so is ensuring that you acknowledge that work properly through correct referencing i.e. the naming of authors/sources and the use of paraphrasing, quotation marks or indented paragraphs. Collusion – You may be asked to work with other students on a project, in class or analysing data, it is essential that any work you hand in for assessment purposes is written up by you on an individual basis. The text and diagrams / pictures etc. you use must be your own. You must be particularly careful if you are sharing a computer with another student or passing information between yourself and others in an electronic format such as email that you do not use someone else’s words – or that they use your words. Non-compliance – it is important that you follow the instructions given to you by staff and adhere to the regulations of the University. For example, non-compliance could include taking unauthorised papers or items into an examination room. Avoiding assessment offences Assessment offences can frequently be avoided by ensuring that your work is correctly referenced and complies with the academic regulations. Referencing is the technique used to direct readers of a piece of written work to the sources of information that have been used in the preparation of the written work. If you wish to refer to something you have read, you MUST give a reference for this material. The University Library provides advice on managing references . Information relating to assessment word count restrictions can be found in the Assessment Content Limit Policy on the website. Insurance Guidelines The University has a range of insurance policies which provide cover to both the University, it’s employees and to students. The following guidelines provide summary information on the operation of key policies in the context of University activities. Please see the Insurance Guide for further information. Students on University Premises Indemnification of the University The University has arranged insurance which provides indemnity in respect of the University’s legal liabilities, which it may incur as a result of injury to students on its premises. There is no cover for accidents that are nobody’s fault. Personal accident Although an element of Personal Accident insurance is included in the University’s Overseas Travel policy the University does not provide general Personal Accident Insurance for students. It is the student’s responsibility to arrange their own cover should they wish to do so. However, Personal Accident Insurance is available for students belonging to the various Students’ Union sports clubs. For further details please contact the Students’ Unions Finance Manager. Fie l d Trips Travel insurance is provided for students undertaking overseas field trips, which are an integral part of their course. An element of Personal Accident insurance cover is included in this policy. However, students undertaking field trips in the UK or overseas may wish to obtain a more comprehensive cover themselves for the duration of the trip. Sandwich Courses Students enrolled on sandwich courses normally complete the work placement as employees of the host firm. It is expected that the student will be covered by the employer’s insurances as they apply to its employees. Secondment and work experience schemes Where students are seconded to firms (except for periods of industrial training in connection with sandwich courses) public authorities or other establishments for the purpose of practical training or industrial experience, the insurance arranged indemnifies the University in connection with: legal liability incurred as a result of accidental in jury to the students themselves legal liability incurred as a result of accidental injury/damage to third party persons or property arising out of any University activities. Special arrangements may be necessary depending on the nature of the work experience. Receiving organisations should be asked to deem students to be employees for the purpose of Employers’ Liability an d Third Party Liability cover. Student Overseas Travel General The University has automatic travel insurance cover for employees and students. This policy provides cover for employees travelling overseas on official University business and students who travel overseas as part of their UWE course. Employees are defined as persons with a contract of employment with the University. Our Insurers have confirmed that the cover will also apply to external examiners if travelling on University business and being paid by the University for their services. However it will not apply to other persons who are sub-contracting their services to the University . No cover applies for holidays or other personal travel. Staff/students should make alternative insurance arrangements for that part of their travel which is not University business. How to arrange cover Overseas visits or study periods Travel insurance cover is provided for students who are required to travel overseas for part of their course. Claims Please see the Insurance Guide for further information and contact details. Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts Dr Juliet Edmonds Programme Leader . Module Leader Learners and Teachers IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme Leader Tutor IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Malcolm Richards Module Leader Contextual Enquiry Tutor Malcolm.richard@uwe.ac.uk Dr Rich Baker Tutor Rich.baker@uwe.ac.uk Dr Fay Lewis Tutor Fay.lewis@uwe.ac.uk Julie Buckland Assistant Head of Department Julie.buckland@uwe.ac.uk
