# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf3gHctZyh6yc3w

Unit 1: Value Reflections &amp; Philosophies of Education Presentation by Dr Tim Clark Senior Lecturer, Education &amp; Childhood

This unit will cover: Defining ‘values’ and ‘philosophy of education’ Exploring why they are important Reflecting on our values as Early Years Teachers Considering the relevance of social context

Learning Objectives To critically evaluate the terms "values" and "philosophies of education"​ To understand the impact of these upon educational provision To evaluate our own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in our roles as educators

1. Definitions

Early Education (2011) Values: “Qualities or principles that individuals believe to be desirable or worthwhile and they prize for themselves, for others and for the world in which they live.”

Values: What’s important here? What do we want for children in our setting/school? What should the experience of attending the setting/school be like for child? What does quality/success look like for us? What is our view of the child? (capable, creative, independent, social…)

An Example - Nursery Values: Our nursery should be child-centred. We value children’s creativity. We support children to develop independence. Children should be listened to. Children’s happiness and wellbeing is important.

Roberson (2000, pg. 4) Philosophy of Education: ‘Your philosophy of education is what you believe about education and the way children learn.’

Philosophy of Education : Concerns pedagogical questions, such as: What Should Children Learn? e.g. specific skills or knowledge? How Should Children Learn? - e.g. through instruction or interaction?

Vygotsky An Example – Social Constructivism ‘What a child can do in cooperation today, he can do alone tomorrow.’ ‘In play a child is always above his average age, above his daily behaviour; in play it is as though he were a head taller than himself.’

Considerations: Take a moment to reflect on some of the questions highlighted in the previous section. What do you want for children who attend your school/setting?

Objectives: To define ‘values’ and ‘philosophy of education’ To explore why they are important To reflect on our values as Early Years Teachers Considering the relevance of social context

2. Why is this important?

Values &amp; Childhood Bronfenbrenner (1979)

Valuing Children’s Rights Provision Article 31: ’Every child has the right to relax, play and take part in a wide range of cultural and artistic activities.’ Protection Article 3: ‘ The best interests of the child must be a top priority in all decisions and actions that affect children.’ Participation Article 12: ‘Every child has the right to express their views, feelings and wishes in all matters affecting them, and to have their views considered and taken seriously.’ UNCRC (1989)

Values &amp; Philosophies We all hold values and beliefs, even if we don’t acknowledge and/or communicate them. Our values will inform our philosophy, and in turn influence our practice. Exploring and discussing our values and philosophy helps create informed and consistent teaching practice.

Values: Espoused vs Enacted Espoused Values: What an organisation/team/setting says, and perhaps thinks, it values. For example, a school’s ‘Mission Statement’ Enacted Values: What happens in practice – the values the team use to make decisions. For example, how teachers manage and respond to behaviour

3. Reflecting on Your Values &amp; Philosophy

The Early Years Foundation Stage ‘Four guiding principles should shape practice in early years settings’. These are: • Every child is a unique child , who is constantly learning and can be resilient, capable, confident and self-assured • Children learn to be strong and independent through positive relationships • Children learn and develop well in enabling environments , in which their experiences respond to their individual needs and there is a strong partnership between practitioners and parents and/or carers • Children develop and learn in different ways and at different rates . The framework covers the education and care of all children in early years provision, including children with special educational needs and disabilities.

Reflections Questions to Ask: 1. What is the role of the teacher? 2. What is our image of the child? 3. How do we ensure all children are included? 4. How do we believe that children learn? 5. How should we manage and support children’s behaviour? 6. What role do parents have in the setting?

Considerations Could you use a staff meeting to reflect on your values as a team? Could you work with others to develop a list of your values and philosophy? Could you explore your practice and routines, and question whether these are consistent with your espoused values?

Review of Learning Objectives In this lecture you have begun to: Critically evaluate the terms "values" and "philosophies of education." To understand the impact of these upon educational provision. To evaluate our own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in our roles as educators.

References Bronfenbrenner, U. (1979). The ecology of human development . London: Harvard University Press. Early Education(The British Association for Early Childhood Education) (2011 ) Code of Ethics . London: Early Education. Available from: www.early-education.org.uk Roberson, T. J. (2000). Philosophy of Philosophy: Making the Connection between Philosophy and Pedagogy Available from: https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED446092.pdf UNCRC (1989) United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child
