Welcome to the Careers Section of this site for UWE Postgraduate Students 2025-26
Here is an overview of the careers support available to help you. PLEASE TAKE TIME TO READ THIS SECTION AND EXPLORE THESE RESOURCES – THEY WILL HELP YOU!
In addition, slides and handouts from timetabled careers workshops in your course will be pasted beneath this section, during the course of the academic year.
Whilst you are undertaking your postgraduate study here at UWE, we encourage you to ensure that you give consideration to your career plans and make the most of the central support and resources available to you.
You may find it helpful to watch these short videos we’ve created for Masters students, which cover:
What to do when, during your Masters year.
Why etiquette and professionalism are essential, if you hope to secure a job in the UK. ·
Skills you MUST develop, to appeal to UK employers. ·
Career resources and support for you, during your Masters year.
Visit our online Career Toolkit
Our Career Toolkit online suite provides a broad range of resources to help you, wherever you may be in terms of managing your career at present.
The Postgraduate Resources tile takes you to a page for Current Masters Students. This page explains the UWE Career Development Framework, gives an appointment booking link provides you with access to the following resources:
· My Career Planner - A tool to help you assess your career confidence and identify your priorities.
· Masters CV workbook – An online workbook providing help with all aspects of your CV, including a breakdown of an example Masters-level CV, resources, activities and tools to check your CV
Pre-recorded career workshops for postgraduate students - A series of recorded career-focused workshops which you can access individually, to help you with all aspects of your career management including career planning, exploring opportunities, networking, applying for jobs in the UK, CVs and interviews. · Postgraduate labour market information (LMI) – Information resources to help you gain insights into specific industry sectors and develop your commercial awareness. ·
Your Masters year - A guide to help you identify and plan actions during your time at UWE, to ensure you maximise your chances of securing employment. ·
Skills to develop during your Masters - An overview of some specific, technical skills aligned to Masters study, as well as a range of more transferable skills. ·
UWE LinkedIn Learning resources
Whether you are just beginning to plan your career or are in the middle of managing an ongoing career plan, you may identify that you are lacking some crucial knowledge or skills.
LinkedIn Learning (LiL) courses provide an effective means of gaining this knowledge through online courses which you can pace to suit your needs. (If you don’t have a LinkedIn account, find out how to create one.) ·
What next – a PhD? - Links to useful sources of information and options. Additional resources in Career Toolkit include help for International Students and links to book an appointment with a member of the Careers & Enterprise team and find details of our drop-ins, find out about job-searching, explore vacancies and register for events and workshops.
Also:
· If you want to gain experience during your studies, use the resources under the Work experience & placements tile. In addition, take a look at the UWE Bristol internship scheme web page, to find out about the opportunities available.
· To find out how to create a CV, a cover letter, optimise your applications or practice interviews, visit the CVs, applications & interviews tile. In here, we also discuss how to use generative AI tools effectively, when applying for opportunities.
· To get detailed feedback on your CV, cover letter and LinkedIn profile, use our new CareerSet tool.
· To practice psychometric tests and get insights into the recruitment schemes used by the UK’s biggest recruiters, take a look at these resources from Graduates First.
Contact Careers & Enterprise
If you have any questions or need more information, please submit your enquiry via https://infohub.uwe.ac.uk/students/question
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Panopto captions (Panopto acdb49e7): [Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.] Hi there. Welcome. My name is Jim. I'm one of the senior careers enterprise developers and US Careers in Enterprise team. And I'm going to talk to you in this short pre-recorded video about etiquette and professionalism and why they are essential to getting a job in the UK. This session is less than ten minutes long, so please take a look at it and think about how it might apply to you and your situation. It's aimed specifically at new master students, so let's just think about what etiquette and professionalism are. You might think you understand this, but let's just baseline it for anyone who's uncertain. According to the Oxford Learners Dictionary, etiquette is the formal rules of correct or polite behaviour in society amongst members of a particular profession or in a particular area of activity. Professionalism is the high standard you expect from a person who's well trained in a particular job. So let's think about how the ideal student might demonstrate professionalism, communicating courteously and in a timely manner. We're always faced sometimes with situations where we have competing demands on us, and it's not always possible to meet everything that we have committed ourselves to. So it's important to communicate courteously, in a timely manner, whether it's face to face, via teams online, over the phone, etc., to manage people's understanding and expectations. If you aren't going to turn up for something, be punctual for lectures, meetings, etc. show respect to others and be inclusive. I'm going to come back to that inclusivity word in a short while. Really important. Don't talk during lectures. Don't distract people. Don't be distracted by your mobile phone or other devices. Manage the expectations of others. As I say, if you have to be somewhere else. If you can't make a meeting, let people know. Cancel with appropriate time as well. Take personal responsibility. This is all about being mature. Being professional. Absolutely crucial to take that responsibility. Don't leave it to someone else. Don't let there be any ambiguity and be positive and show commitment. Professionalism is all about making the most of opportunities, not taking challenges to heart, but seeing how you can actually develop those in a positive way as well. So that's how the ideal young master's student might demonstrate professionalism. Okay. As it says on screen, these might well align with you as core values. So as part of our 2030 strategy we have five core values. We're ambitious. We're not afraid to shape, challenge and tackle big issues. We're inclusive. I mentioned inclusivity just now, so we make Youis a supportive and inspiring place to learn and work. Diversity of experience and perspective is encouraged. We want to collaborate effectively with one another to make sure that we are fully inclusive. We are innovative. We create new opportunities for people who study with us as well as work with us. We embrace different ideas and pioneer new and sustainable ways of doing things. We're always looking to find new opportunities to do this. We're collaborative, as I mentioned. Um, well, to make inclusivity. So we've got strong connections locally and globally within the university. There are many different teams of people as well, and it's important that you demonstrate how you collaborate with others effectively to get results. Don't just think you have to work on your own and that's it. See what others can do for you, how you can support them and achieve the team goals. Together we're enterprising, so we instil a thirst for new knowledge. You're demonstrating this at the moment by coming here to your masters, which is absolutely fantastic. We empower students and staff to demonstrate a creative questioning approach, challenge the norms, challenge the status quo. But don't do it simply for the sake of challenging. But think about how you can come up with solutions and different ideas. Have that can-do confidence. Okay, so these are five core values which we think epitomise ideal students and graduates from uni. And if you can demonstrate examples of how you do these, you'll be demonstrating effective professionalism as well. Think about your digital footprint. I don't know if you've ever tried to search for yourself on Google or any other search engine. Sometimes you may not always get the results you want. So. The ideal candidate for an employer is someone who shares the values of that organisation. Really important to bear in mind that when you apply for an opportunity with an organisation, it's easy to look at their website to see what their mission statement is or their core values, and to tell them in the interview. I believe in the same values that you have. Any applicant can do that. There's no evidence there. So think about what your digital footprint might suggest if your social media profiles aren't lockdown. So the only people who are your friends can see them. There might be pictures of you online which could be misinterpreted, or things which. Might seem unprofessional. It's really important that you manage your digital footprint effectively. Have a look. Think about it from an employee's perspective and think, well, okay, how do I take action to ensure that I sanitise my digital footprint? So it presents me in a professional manner that I would be proud of and an employer would be happy to see, because ultimately, they might see you as a potential ambassador for their organisation. If they see something about you which they perceive to be unprofessional. That means they are less likely to consider you in the future. I just want to note the quote that's on screen here. 2017 CareerBuilder survey found 70% of employees use social media to screen candidates during the hiring process. Same study found that 51% of employees have find information on social media that cause them to turn down an otherwise suitable candidate for a job. That's over half of candidates rejected because of what their digital footprint said about them. Please don't be in that group. Okay. What employers think distinguishes master's students were undergrads. You're here doing a master's now. So it's really important to think, what's the difference? Yes. There's going to be that key focus about the technical aspect of your course and what you're doing within it. But there's so much more as well. So again, let me just read out this quote on screen. When I receive an application from a candidate with a master's degree. I feel like this person would bring something more to the company in terms of strategy, and that they may potentially have a more long term vision for what they would like to accomplish in that position. Bear in mind that bachelor's degree programs, regardless of field of study, career topics in the broad sense, whereas master's program is more specialised, having a master's degree also shows your passion for your field of study. So drilling down there, we can see here about being strategic in your mindset, your commitment, your passion as well that also bear in mind that doing a master's, as I say, is pretty much a full time job in its own right. So you've got to think about the commitment that's demonstrated there. You've got to think about personal motivation, personal organisation of balancing your time so much more that critical thinking skills, research skills. So much going on there. So some of the key things a master's gives you, more experience gives you greater maturity, further knowledge, enhanced skills to say critical thinking, research skills, communications. It develops levels of self-awareness you may not have possessed previously. It gives you preparedness as you go into a career. It helps develop your commercial awareness. Also, often employers tell us they are less than satisfied with the lack of industrial awareness that some candidates may possess. It gives you confidence, but there's a fine line tempering confidence with arrogance. So don't say that you are the best. Everything. Provide evidence to demonstrate what you can bring to a role. But I must emphasise that it says on screen having a master's doesn't entitle you to success. Okay, it's not a guarantee. A lack of professionalism will destroy all of that positivity immediately. So again, it's so incredibly important to be professional at all times. We've received feedback from some of our key stakeholders. Employees are right there. Um, it says prior to record communications, there's been a lack of consistency in student communications with some employers and employees who support the curriculum. Timekeeping. Some candidates, students and graduates have exhibited a failure to arrive on time to meetings and not be on time for video calls, etc. that has given a poor impression to those employees who have committed time to assist those people. Professional identity. Employers have reported students failing to position themselves with professional confidence, with clients showing a lack of respect and failing to develop mutually collaborative relationships. The lack of respect. Again, the inclusivity part I mentioned just now as well. So you can see this is genuine messaging that we receive from employers. Again, don't be in these groups of people to whom this applies. So remember you might consider asking an academic or an employer in your course to provide a reference for you. If I have to base that reference upon what they know, if you the way they've seen you conduct yourself, how have you been late for lectures? Have you been talking to lectures, how have you been distracted, etc., etc.? So if you haven't demonstrated professionalism, commitment and motivation, the reference may not be as positive as you would wish. So call to action. You're aware of the importance of exhibiting professionalism and etiquette. Think about how confident you are that you recognise what employees expect. If you think about what your plan might be to develop your understanding further. Think about how you can make this happen. Who can help you with this plan? What resources do you need as well? Think about how will you ensure you demonstrate professionalism throughout your time here? We've got lots of resources in Career Toolkit to help you, including labour market information. You can also book appointments with us. There's so much we can do to help. So please have a look on Career Toolkit. Explore particularly the Masters study title and all the resources beneath that, including labour market information. Book an appointment with a member of the team. Ask a question online via Info Hub and indeed drop into the Frenchay Careers Lounge if you're on campus. Um, we are there between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m., typically during term time on weekdays. So thank you so much for your time. I hope this has been of some interest. It's great to have you here at uni. Please do make the most of us and we look forward to supporting you. Many thanks.
