# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf34dyx8wmkk9yh

Assignment B- Written Assignment Guidance

Assignment B- Written Assignment What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies. Word limit, not including references or title - 3000 words Date is above (48 no penalty window applies)

What are we asking you to do? An assignment is a way of exploring your understanding of the course content and your ability to write critically. This is an open-ended assignment title which allows you to explore your own approaches to teaching and to compare them to the theory on teaching and learning. At masters’ level it is better to keep a narrow focus and look in detail. You can make reference to theory and your own experiences. You can write in the first person as this is about your philosophies. It will have some of your own personal beliefs – you may want to define the difference between beliefs and philosophies. A possible pitfall would be to describe your teaching and or philosophy without reference to the ideas of others or without identifying some of the less desirable aspects of that approach.

What is a Philosophy of Education? Your philosophy of education is what you believe about education and the way children learn.’ (Robertson 2000) How do you think pupils learn? Go to the Padlet in Unit 1. Children are learning before they are born ( Gopnick et al.,1999) They are experiencing colours, sounds and physical sensations. This process continues as they develop as young children as their world becomes wider and more varied. However, if children only learnt from their immediate environment the learning could be limited. This is where language and talk becomes an essential part of a child’s development. Vygotsky (1976) suggested that knowledge is socially constructed …

How do you think Pupils should be Educated? 2. Having stated how you think pupils learn , then explore what the methods of teaching and learning should be. As I believe that talk is a vital part of gaining perceptual understanding in science , I consider that there should be opportunities within the science lesson to discuss the pupils’ understandings. However, as Mercer (2009) suggests, pupils may need to be trained in productive forms of questioning and discussion to experience conceptual challenge. He suggests that pupils should take the roles of questioner, summariser etc. This reflects my experience where I have found groups talking without focus easily drift off task. You can reflect here on aspects of your institution/ culture that are congruent with your beliefs and those that are not. Remember to be professional here, we are not criticising individuals but arguing for approaches and strategies.

What Teaching Strategies Would You Like To Use More Of, And Why? You could explore some of the theories of effective teaching and learning You could explore the pastoral role of the teacher and the holistic development of the pupil You could explore the hidden curriculum related to a philosophy of education through a discussion on behaviour management approaches.

Possible Structure Introduction- define your terms, identify your area of focus. Set your context- where you teach and what. Any other important cultural contextual factors. How you think pupils learn. Identify different aspects of pupils’ learning that are important to you. Possibly link to your values. Link to learning theories e.g. behaviourism, constructivism etc. It is likely to be a mixture of different theories. How do you think pupils should be educated? What kind of approaches and strategies and curricula should be used to educate pupils and why. Reference educational literature to support your ideas and experiences. What could be the drawbacks of such approaches? Use of alternate theoretical viewpoints. This could be a mismatch with your current institution philosophy, resources in schools, parental understanding and priorities etc. Conclude. Link your values, philosophy and pedagogies.

Drawback and features of good assignments. Masters level assignment should contain critical comment e.g., with alternate viewpoints: Both Vygotsky and Dewey rejected didactic models of teaching for children, instead highlighting the importance of play and learning through experience and ones’ environment. Though both authors seem similar in many respects, there are marked difference between their theories, but differences I believe can be balanced carefully in the ELT, CLT multi-cultural classroom. Vygotsky saw the classroom as ‘social organisation… representative of the larger social community’, with social organisation and community as the agent of change for the individual. Education serves to build children into the community and become productive members of the community, with integration of social and cultural goals of importance in social pedagogy. While Dewey also saw the classroom as a social organisation ‘representative of the larger social community’, however it is the child that is the agent of change for social organisation (Glassman 2001, p13). Or through your own experiences: Although Lave and Wenger (1996) describe how more experienced workers influence the practice of the less experienced, in my school there are no specialist in art… Or the sources you use: Bennett was employed by the UK Conservative government to produce this report so it may have a conservative agenda and may not be appropriate to the culture in Thailand.

Note that anything related to time in schools in any and all academic writing for education, must be compiled with attention to due professionalism, academic rigour, and attention to confidentiality. Therefore, please ensure all work is anonymised so that the name of the school, teachers or pupils, or any other distinguishable features are not present in your work or appendices. Confidentiality and Professional Conventions

As this is a single essay, produce it in this way… Front page (student name number, subject essay title,– see example in Handbook). Essay Assignment B Note: No footnotes in either part. References ONE list, in the UWE-Harvard- required format. Appendices* *The short appendices (the contents of which are mentioned in the main body text), might include feedback from, observation form, reflection on, or your professional diary or log (if you keep one), about current school experience. Format for submission

Text should be clear and easy to read. For those looking for a specific style guide, you might choose to use the following: Font; Calibri (body) Size: 11 Line Spacing: 1.15 You should; Leave a single line space (return) in between your paragraphs and not indent the first line of a paragraph. The text should be left aligned and therefore unjustified. Format for submission

Support for Writing Individual tutorial Critical writing unit on Library website Referencing unit on library website Ann Cowling for online writing support at ann.cowling@uwe.ac.uk Send your tutor up to 450 words. Get a friend to read it! Use Studiosity . Questions in online discussion.

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading
