# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfRjRn4b3f4gdwZ&attachment=false

Gardner developed a theory about “multiple intelligences”, and he supports the idea that every one of us has different types of intelligence (2011). He proposed that there are eight intelligences: Spatial, naturalistic, musical, logical-mathematical, interpersonal, bodily- kinesthetic , and linguistic, intra-personal. To paraphrase , the way in which individuals learn is complex and we all have different interests, needs, strengths and areas for development. Pupils learn in different ways; educators teach in different ways, what is essential is that we must all be flexible and open-minded when trying out new approaches, strategies, and content. My lessons usually provide differentiated learning and a variety of teaching materials which allows for my content to be accessed by anyone. I believe that knowing my pupils has helped me to prepare activities which are suitable for their own developmental stage, personal interests, and cognitive abilities. I believe that understanding learners needs and wants comes down to knowing them as an individual person and therefore building positive relationships with your students is essential. Dix supports this idea and suggests that students genuinely learn more effectively when they have a bond or significant relationship with the teacher (2017). In addition to this, it’s important to constantly reinforce students' creativity and authenticity in expressing themselves with others to showcase their learning in different ways, whether that be through verbal recall or storytelling, artistic creations, or physical performance I believe that every child has the right to express themselves in different way, and we should respect and celebrate their differences. This is possible if I create a culture of respect and togetherness because that genuine cooperation and collaboration will flourish in the classroom. Vygotsky's social constructivism theory (2017) supports the idea that true learning is created through social interaction, and that real learning can only be built through a collaborative process between students, peers, and teachers. Therefore, teachers must work with their students to create engaging lessons and should constantly review their teaching practice based on the ever-changing needs of all individuals in class. The interaction between peers is also essential to how students develop, and this doesn’t always have to be a positive interaction! For example, when pupils are arguing during break time because some are not sharing the ball - I always ask them “What can I do?”, because honestly, what can I do? I just explain to them that they need to find a solution and try to talk thing through to fix the problem. They need to confront problems independently for them to find solutions and be ready to be part of a society when you are going to find a variety of problems that need to be solved by no one but you . This allows them to build on negotiation skills, communication skills, understanding various perspectives… all of which will benefit them back in the classroom. When I see students working together to solve a problem or even just communicating during playtime, I never underestimate what is happening, instead, I always listen and observe any form of expression because in those moments you can understand how the child likes to collaborate and communicate. “ Through careful eavesdropping of student conversations, the teacher comes to understand what learners know, what they partly know and what they do not yet know ” Black, P. &amp; William, D. ( 2004 )
