Unit 7 Step 2
Assessment for Learning to Benefit Pupils.
Learning Outcomes
Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts.
Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally and their contexts, recognising their potential implications for learning and teaching.
Reading Activity
The following readings are divided into the age range you mostly teach. The Abbot et. al., (2019) reading is for teachers of pupils aged 11-20 yrs and the Clarke (2014) is for teachers of pupils aged 5-11yrs . Read the one that is most applicable to you.
The readings take a further look into involving pupils in assessment and assessment for learning.
Make notes below for use in other modules and your assignment.
What have you read?
Also available here: Brooks et.al. and Clarke
Make sure you are logged onto library
(Add the reading material title here)
Abbott, I, Huddleston, P, & Middlewood, D 2019, Preparing to Teach in Secondary Schools: a Student Teacher's Guide to Professional Issues in Secondary Education, McGraw-Hill Education, Maidenhead. Available from: ProQuest Ebook Central. [27 August 2025]. Chapter 9
Clarke, S.(2014) Outstanding formative assessment: culture and practice, Hodder Education, London. Chapter 9.
1. What do you think of these assessment for learning approaches and how applicable they could be to your own teaching?
Write your answer below:
1. What do you think of these assessment for learning approaches and how applicable they could be to your own teaching? multi-line text editor.
2. Can you see any drawbacks to their use in your setting?
Write your answer below:
2. Can you see any drawbacks to their use in your setting? multi-line text editor.
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
 IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
