# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfgcmjbbZW7wmrr

DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CHILDHOOD Award Route: Post Graduate Certificate in Education International ASSIGNMENT /PRESENTATION FEEDBACK SHEET M LEVEL STUDENT NUMBER: STUDENT NAME: (if known) MODULE CODE: UTLGVR-30-M AGREED RECOMMENDED GRADE: (SUBJECT TO CONFIRMATION OF EXAMINING BOARD) MODULE TITLE: Learning and Teaching An 8 min presentation Identify and discuss a critical incident in your teaching. Discuss how this has informed your understanding of learners and teaching within your setting Criteria for Assessment 80+ 70 -79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A: Conceptual Domain M level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret an d/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically with some relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently. These ideas will form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument which engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some argument apparent . Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success . Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a s ubstantial degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of analysis and/or evaluation is present . Any attempt made to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful. B: Literature Domain M Level The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also good evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions and analysis of the key points. E xamples of critical engagement are apparent , including relevant theory . UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with occasional errors of detail. A range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions of the key points. Some examples of critical engagement may be apparent. There is an identification of relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with frequent errors of detail. Significant irrelevance evident in a narrow range of sources. Sources mainly secondary or non-academic in nature and possibly out-of-date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident . UWE Harvard referencing is poorly applied throughout. F: Values Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Good identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Some identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study . There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Little or no identification and articulation of the student’s own values. Little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study, where relevant. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain M Level : The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging reflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this . There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful reflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited . There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Strengths of this work: Guidance to help you improve your work : Comments on quality of presentation /written skills : FIRST MARKER SIGNATURE : SECOND MARKER : DATE: Student response: Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with Tutor ) 1. 2. 3.
