# https://cityacademybristol.clf.uk/wp-content/uploads/Behaviour-Policy-and-Statement-of-Behaviour-Principles-.pdf

Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles. Date Adopted: Date, Cabot Learning Federation Implementation Date: 1st April 2019 -- 1 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 2 History of most recent Policy changes Date Page Change Origin of Change e.g. TU request, Change in legislation Date E.g. Whole Document Detail of change Reason for change -- 2 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 3 Contents 1. Aims..................................................................................................................................................... 4 2. Legislation and Statutory Requirements ............................................................................................ 4 3. The City Academy Introduction and Vision......................................................................................... 3 4. Definitions ........................................................................................................................................... 4 5. Bullying ................................................................................................................................................ 5 6. Roles and Responsibilities ................................................................................................................... 6 7. Student Code of Conduct .................................................................................................................... 6 8. Rewards and Sanctions ....................................................................................................................... 7 9. Behaviour Management ..................................................................................................................... 8 10. Uniform ........................................................................................................................................... 13 11. Equipment ....................................................................................................................................... 14 12. Student Transition........................................................................................................................... 14 13. Training……………………………………………………………………………………………………….....14 14. Monitoring……………………………………………………………………………………………………….14 15. Links with other policies………………………………………………………………………………………. 14 Appendix 1: Statement of behaviour principles………………………………………………………………… 16 Appendix 2: Incident Form…………………………………………………………………………………………17 Appendix 3: Rewards at City Academy………………………………………………….See separate document Appendix 4: City Standards……………………………………………………………… See separate document -- 3 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 4 1. Policy aims This policy aims to: • Provide a consistent approach to behaviour management • Define what we consider to be unacceptable behaviour, including bullying • Outline how students are expected to behave • Summarise the roles and responsibilities of different people in the school community with regards to behaviour management • Outline our system of rewards and sanctions 2. Legislation and statutory requirements This policy is based on advice from the Department for Education (DfE) on: • Behaviour and discipline in schools • Searching, screening and confiscation at school • The Equality Act 2010 • Use of reasonable force in schools • Supporting students with medical conditions at school • Keeping Children Safe in Education and other safeguarding guidance It is also based on the Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) Code of Practice. In addition, this policy is based on: • Section 175 of the Education Act 2002, which outlines a school’s duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of its students • Sections 88-94 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006, which require schools to regulate students’ behaviour and publish a behaviour policy and written statement of behaviour principles, and give schools the authority to confiscate students’ property • Schedule 1 of the Education (Independent School Standards) Regulations 2014; paragraph 7 outlines a school’s duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of children, paragraph 9 requires the school to have a written behaviour policy and paragraph 10 requires the school to have an anti-bullying strategy • DfE guidance explaining that academies should publish their behaviour policy and anti-bullying strategy online. This policy complies with our funding agreement and articles of association. 3. City Academy Bristol Introduction and Vision City Academy is a mixed gender secondary academy situated in East Central Bristol. It serves an area of high deprivation and take students mainly from the local community (Lawrence Hill, Barton Hill, Easton, St Pauls, St George and Whitehall). The student profile is multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-faith, with over 46 different languages spoken and approximately 47% of students speaking English as an additional language. We also want our students to understand their role in developing a common purpose across our Academy community and beyond. ‘City Standards” provides a framework to ensure our core values -- 4 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 5 (Grit, Pride and Team Spirit) are embedded within our daily practice and routines “so that every child has the choice to go to university, choose their career and improve the world.” Here at City Academy we fully believe that verbal and meaningful praise can be very powerful in developing a happy and purposeful school environment. It is this focus on positive relationships that drives the positive environment of the academy. What do we want at City Academy? • To have the highest expectations of student behaviour in order to maximise their opportunity to achieve. • To ensure all students develop the good learning habits that they need to be successful in school and life. • To realise and celebrate the potential of all students through promoting success of our students both inside and outside of the Academy. • To create an environment in which students are enabled to have the right to go to university, choose their career and improve the world • To form an active partnership with families to encourage excellent behaviour and to establish improved patterns of behaviour where there are difficulties. • To ensure that all students feel safe These aims are supported by regular and appropriate in-service training; close parental and community links; student organisation which takes account of ethnic and gender balance; the boosting of students’ self-esteem through positive reinforcement and extra-curricular activities; and Academy social events aimed at pulling together the different life experiences of groups within the community. 4. Definitions Misbehaviour is defined as: • Disruption in lessons, in corridors between lessons, and at break and lunchtimes • Non-completion of classwork or homework • Poor attitude • Incorrect uniform Serious misbehaviour is defined as: • Repeated breaches of the school rules • Any form of bullying or harassment • Sexual harassment, which is any unwanted sexual behaviour that causes humiliation, pain, fear or intimidation including sexual assault • Racist, sexist, homophobic or discriminatory behaviour • Vandalism • Theft • Fighting • Smoking • Possession of any prohibited items. These are: • Knives or weapons • Alcohol -- 5 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 6 • Illegal drugs • Stolen items • Tobacco and cigarette papers • Fireworks • Pornographic images • Any article a staff member reasonably suspects has been, or is likely to be, used to commit an offence, or to cause personal injury to, or damage to the property of, any person (including the student) • Any item banned by the Academy which has been identified in the rules as an item which may be searched for. 5. Bullying and harassment The academy has a comprehensive Tackling Bullying and Harassment Policy which should be read in conjunction with this policy. Bullying is defined as the repetitive, intentional harming of one person or group by another person or group, where the relationship involves an imbalance of power. Bullying is, therefore: • Deliberately hurtful • Repeated, often over a period of time • Difficult to defend against Bullying can include: Type of bullying Definition Emotional Being unfriendly, excluding, tormenting Physical Hitting, kicking, pushing, taking another’s belongings, any use of violence Racial Racial taunts, graffiti, gestures Grounds of faith or religion When a religious or religiously unaffiliated person chooses to intentionally or unintentionally degrade another person emotionally, mentally, or physically based on: - the bullied individual’s actual or perceived religious or religiously unaffiliated identity, or - the doctrines or practices of their belief. Direct or indirect verbal Name-calling, sarcasm, spreading rumours, teasing Cyber-bullying Bullying that takes place online, such as through social networking sites, messaging apps or gaming sites Homophobic/transphobic Bullying motivated by prejudice against lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans or non-binary (LGBT) people -- 6 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 7 Harassment is defined by the Equality Act and is unwanted behaviour which someone finds offensive or which makes them feel intimidated or humiliated. It can happen on its own or alongside other forms of discrimination. Harassment can be illegal and will also be reported and addressed through the Tackling Bullying and Harassment Policy and Procedures. 6. Roles and responsibilities 6.1 The Academy Council The Academy Council is responsible for reviewing and approving the written statement of behaviour principles (see Appendix 1). The Academy Council will also review this behaviour policy at least every three years in conjunction with the Principal and will monitor the policy’s effectiveness, holding the Principal to account for its implementation. 6.2 The Principal The Principal is responsible for reviewing and recommending this behaviour policy. The Principal will ensure that the school environment encourages positive behaviour and that staff deal effectively with poor behaviour, and will monitor how staff implement this policy to ensure rewards and sanctions are applied consistently. 6.3 Staff Staff are responsible for: • Implementing the behaviour policy consistently • Modelling positive behaviour • Providing a personalised approach to the specific behavioural needs of particular students • Recording behaviour incidents using SIMS (School Information Management System), incident forms (see Appendix 2 for an incident form) and CPOMS as appropriate. The Senior Leadership Team (SLT) will support staff in responding to behaviour incidents. 6.4 Parents/Carers Parents are expected to: • Support their child in adhering to the student code of conduct • Inform the academy of any changes in circumstances that may affect their child’s behaviour • Discuss any behavioural concerns with academy staff promptly • Report and concerns relating to bullying and harassment. 7. Student code of conduct Students are expected to: -- 7 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 8 • Behave in an orderly and self-controlled way • Show respect to members of staff and each other • In class, make it possible for all students to learn • Move quietly around the school • Treat the school buildings and school property with respect • Wear the correct uniform at all times • Accept sanctions when given • Refrain from behaving in a way that brings the school into disrepute, including when outside school 8. Rewards and sanctions 8.1 List of rewards and sanctions Rewards We want all students to be motivated by the intrinsic value of achievement, we are committed to acknowledging students for developing good learning habits and demonstrating City Standards inside and outside of the Academy. All members of staff use descriptive praise to signal to students that they are demonstrating good learning habits throughout their time at the Academy, this is then supported through parental contact in order to reinforce recognition. Throughout each term students are regularly rewarded for exhibiting the Academy core values of Grit, Pride and Team Spirit. These are celebrated among staff and students on a regular basis, (see Appendix 3 for full break down of rewards). Positive behaviour will be rewarded with: • Praise • Achievement points • Subject Recognition • Celebration Assemblies • Letters or phone calls home to parents • Special responsibilities/privileges Sanctions Teachers have statutory authority to discipline students whose behaviour is unacceptable, who break the academy rules or who fail to comply with reasonable instructions. Consequences should be used to help students make appropriate choices about their behaviour and attendance. Where they choose to breach expectations of behaviour, students have a right to expect fair sanctions, applied consistently. The most appropriate sanction is one designed to put matters right and to encourage better behaviour and attendance in future. It is not appropriate, therefore, to punish whole groups for the misdemeanours of a few, or to impose a sanction that may humiliate students. Statistical information will be used to inform our planning about behaviour improvement, for example, to plan future groupings and to target support to areas where students have the greatest difficulty. -- 8 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 9 All sanctions and rewards (positive and negative event logs) are recorded onto SIMS and monitored by the students LF (Learning Facilitator), PSW (Pastoral Support Worker), PL (Pastoral Leader), Head of Faculty (HoF) and SLT (Senior Leadership Team) to enable appropriate support strategies to be implemented. Students who are a member of the Personalised Learning Centre (PLC) will also be monitored by this team, often in place of the Year Team. City Standards is used in all classrooms to reinforce positive behaviour. Staff, and students, when appropriate, will be consulted when rewards and sanctions are being decided. The school may use one or more of the following sanctions in response to unacceptable behaviour: • A verbal reprimand • Sending the student out of the class to ‘The Link’ for failure to follow ‘City Standards’, (see Appendix 4 for full break down of City Standards). • If a student refuses to follow a member of staff’s instructions, a duty call will be made where a member of staff will arrive to support with the situation • Expecting work to be completed at home, or at break or lunchtime • Detention at break or lunchtime, or after school • Letters or phone calls home to parents/carers • Agreeing a behaviour contract • Putting a student ‘on report’ to their LF, PSW, PL or a member of SLT. We may use the Link in response to serious or persistent breaches of this policy. Students may be sent to the Link during lessons if they are disruptive, and they will be expected to complete work that is set in the Link. The Link is managed by SLT and Pastoral Leaders. See 9.5 for more information regarding the Link. 8.2 Academy Based Community Service At times it may be appropriate for students to be given a sanction of Academy Based Community Service for various reasons including; littering, damaging academy property and equipment. This may take the form of activities including; picking up litter, removing graffiti, tidying up the Venue after a social period, tidying up a classroom, assisting in general chores. This list is not exhaustive. At all times students will remain safe and will be given any equipment needed to ensure their safety. These sanctions are most likely to be used following an incident that befits it, for instance students who deliberately drop litter and make the Academy an untidy place can be expected to assist in cleaning up the Academy. 8.3 Off-site behaviour Sanctions may be applied where a student has misbehaved off-site when representing the academy, such as on a school trip or on the bus on the way to or from the academy. Academies have a statutory power to discipline for misbehaving outside of the academy premises. Section 89(5) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 gives Principals a specific statutory power to regulate students’ behaviour in these circumstances “to such extent as is reasonable”. We expect students to be take pride and be a good ambassador for City Academy. Behaviours will include any that do not meet our expectations when the student is: • Taking part in any academy organised or academy related event -- 9 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 10 • Travelling to and from the academy • Wearing the academy uniform • In some other way identifiable as a student at City Academy Or behaviour at any time, whether or not the conditions above apply, that: • Could have repercussions for the orderly running of the academy • Poses a threat to another student or a member of the public • Could adversely affect the reputation of the academy. 8.4 Malicious allegations Where a student makes an accusation against a member of staff and that accusation is shown to have been malicious, the Principal will discipline the student in accordance with this policy. Please refer to our safeguarding policy/statement of procedures for dealing with allegations of abuse against staff for more information on responding to allegations of abuse. The Principal will also consider the pastoral needs of staff accused of misconduct. 9. Behaviour management Behaviour management at The City Academy is set through ‘City Standards’. 9.1 Classroom management Teaching and support staff are responsible for setting the tone and context for positive behaviour within the classroom. They will: • Create and maintain a stimulating environment that encourages students to be engaged • Display the student code of conduct or their own classroom rules • Develop a positive relationship with students, which may include: ▪ Greeting students in the morning/at the start of lessons ▪ Establishing clear routines ▪ Communicating expectations of behaviour in ways other than verbally ▪ Highlighting and promoting good behaviour ▪ Concluding the day positively and starting the next day afresh ▪ Having a plan for dealing with low-level disruption ▪ Using positive reinforcement 9.2 Lesson Scoring All members of staff will use registers to monitor students’ behaviour. Using City Standards a warning will be given for behaviour and work produced that is not in line with City Standards expectations. Lessons will be scored as: Score Description Outcome 4 Working to a high level with excellent focus on learning Positive event log and/or praise. -- 10 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 11 3 Working in line with City Standards Verbal praise 2 Failure to follow City Standards Warning given and name written on board 1 Continuous failure to follow City Standards or red card given Asked to leave the lesson and complete 2 lessons and a social time in ‘The Link’. Time in ‘The Link’ can be extended depending on the level of behaviour. Restorative conversation between the student and the teacher before their next lesson together (see restore section below). 9.3 Restore A restorative conversation is vital to re-building the relationship between the student and the adult. For minor issues this can be a brief conversation at the classroom door or in the corridor. For more serious issues these can be facilitated and support by Pastoral staff or SLT. 9.4 Behaviour in Learning Family (LF) During afternoon LF the students have a year group timetable to follow which includes assembly, Drop Everything And Read (DEAR), current affairs, student achievement and a community project. 9.5 The Link Students who fail to comply with the Academy rules may end up in The Link. As the name suggests this is a room that links behaviour with returning to lessons. Students who are placed in The Link may be there due to a number of reasons including, failure to follow City Standards, or a result of a serious incident. At the City Academy we ensure we provide the tools for all students to succeed, from time to time students may need to refocus on this and this is where The Link can support this. Students will work in silence in The Link. Each student will be provided with text books and worksheets to work independently covering a range of subjects. Students will spend three lessons and social time in The Link, unless the reasons for being placed in The Link are for a serious incident/ongoing behavioural problems, then time in The Link can be extended. Students will have their lunch brought to them and eat in silence. Students will be entitled to two toilet breaks throughout the day. Failure to follow the rules within The Link may result in a fixed term exclusion. Parent/carers will be contacted by phone with a follow up letter. A return to school meeting will then take place the next day and the student will again be placed in the link until they can complete the expected time. 9.6 Graduated Response All students will have their own graduated response document which records types of interventions that students have been offered to support them to improve their behaviour and learning at The City -- 11 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 12 Academy Bristol. The interventions can range from daily check ins with a student’s LF to working with an outside agency. Action Who is responsible? When? What is done? Learning Facilitator monitoring LF Weekly LF review sessions Show lesson scoring to individuals/LF group. Praise those with 5s/4s. Stage 1 card (LF) LF Start of the week of after PSS or a review Students with multiple 1s/2s put on to a stage 1 card Pastoral Support Worker monitoring PSW After two-week Stage 1 review Mentor students, put on card and review lesson hot spots Pastoral Leader monitoring PL After two-week PSW review Mentor students, put on card, meet with parents/cares and lesson hot spots Head of Faculty monitoring H of F Students with 1s/2s in one subject/lesson Curriculum detention Curriculum monitoring Contact home Certificates and curriculum rewards SLT monitoring SLT Following a PL or H of F review Behaviour review meeting with SLT 9.7 Serious Incident Protocol When a serious incident has occurred at the Academy, a full investigation will be undertaken. This will involve taking statements from students and staff where needed. Parents/carers will always be informed when we are dealing with a serious incident. At times, we may need to separate a student during an investigation. When we have completed our investigation, parents will be asked to attend the Academy to discuss the incident and possible ways of resolving the situation. Please be aware that sometimes an investigation may take a few days to fully understand. This means the students involved may still be in lessons learning while this happens, this is due to ensuring that a student does not miss out on learning when potentially this is not needed. The following steps may be taken: • Warnings • Detention • Exclusion (Fixed Term and Permanent) Exclusion, which only the Principal or, if unavailable, the Vice-Principal, can decide on, will only be taken: • In response to serious breaches of the academy’s Behaviour Policy; or • In response to persistent breaches of the academy’s Behaviour Policy; or -- 12 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 13 • Where allowing the student to remain in school would seriously harm the education or welfare of the student or others in the academy. Students may be excluded for a fixed number of days or excluded from the academy permanently. The academy makes every effort to investigate serious matters which may lead to exclusion; considering at all stages our statutory duties in relation to SEND, functions under the Equality Act 2010 and our duty not to discriminate against students on the basis of protected characteristics, such as disability or race. This involves direct discussion with students who were involved in incidents either as witnesses, bystanders or victims. All students at risk of exclusion will be required to write a written statement; this provides a clear opportunity to write a truthful account of events which will then be discussed with them with a member of the Pastoral or Leadership Team prior to a decision about exclusion being made. Any decision to exclude a student from the academy will be made in line with the principles of administrative law i.e. that it is a lawful, rational, reasonable, fair and proportionate response. When establishing the facts in relation to an exclusion decision the Principal or Vice-Principal will apply the civil standard of proof; i.e. “on the balance of probabilities” it is more likely than not that a fact is true, rather than the criminal standard of “beyond reasonable doubt”. Whilst exclusion may still be an appropriate sanction, the Principal or Vice-Principal will consider factors that are identified after an incident of poor behaviour has occurred. For example, where it comes to light that a student has suffered bereavement, has mental health issues or has been subject to bullying. Parents/carers will always be aware of the reasons for these sanctions and there are legal guidelines which will be followed (these include the right of appeal). Return from a period of exclusion will always involve a re-integration meeting with parents/carers, the student and a senior member of staff. Where required, a student and parent may be asked to sign a written behaviour contract as part of the reintegration process. a) The academy will, without delay, inform the student’s parent/carer of the period of any exclusion and the reasons for it. b) The academy will also, without delay, provide parents/carers with the following information in writing: • The reasons for the exclusion • The period of a fixed period exclusion or, for a permanent exclusion, the fact that it is permanent • Parents/carers right to make representation about the exclusion to the Academy Council • Advise the parent/carer how their representation may be made; and • Where there is a legal requirement for the Academy Council to consider the exclusion, that parents have a right to attend a meeting, be represented at this meeting (at their own expense) and to bring a friend Fixed Term Exclusion Reduction Plan (FTERP) Decisions to exclude students for a fixed period of time are never taken lightly. If an incident occurs that would warrant a fixed term exclusion of multiple days the student and parents may be offered the chance to take part in our fixed term exclusion reduction programme. Instead of being fixed term excluded for a period of multiple days the student may be excluded for one day and then spend some subsequent days at a partner academy (like a mini-immersion). We find that this -- 13 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 14 benefits all parties. Students spend less time out of a provision. Parents spend less time having to be responsible for the student whilst they are at home on exclusion. The originating academy has time to consider further support that the student may require following the exclusion. Immersion to another school If concerns arise regarding a student’s conduct, either relating to a single larger incident or a series of persistent disruptions, the Academy may suggest to parents and the student that the students spends a short period of time attending a local partner school. This period of time is intended to allow the student the opportunity, away from their regular peers and potential distractions, to take some time to reset any pattern of behaviour and reflect on any incidents. During the immersion period the student will likely spend a short period in the equivalent of the internal Link room or personalised learning centre of the receiving academy and then, if this is successful, will spend some time following a regular timetable of lessons. Every endeavour is made to match similar subjects to the student’s normal timetable, though this is not always possible. Although we appreciate this may feel like some loss of learning time the intention is to ensure longer term success when the student returns to City Academy. Most immersions run for two weeks, though some may be longer at the request and agreement of interested parties. Immersions are most successful with parental support and the overall rationale is around giving the student the best chance to reset and refocus their behaviours. Negotiated transfer to another school A negotiated transfer (NT) is where a student moves to another Academy for a trial period of time. The trial period is normally 12 weeks duration. If the student engages well in the new academy and all parties are satisfied then at the end of the trial period the student will move permanently to the new academy and stop being a student at the old academy. The old academy may then offer the vacant space to a new student. The new academy will become solely responsible for the welfare of the student. If at any point during the trial period the student’s behaviour or engagement at the new academy is not satisfactory then the NT will end and the student will return to their old academy. There is no right to appeal the decision to end the NT as it is not treated as an exclusion as the student is able to return to their old academy. NTs often follow successful immersion periods where the student and parents realise that a fresh start may be best for the student. NTs are often offered to students and parents where the students conduct places them at risk of exclusion (fixed term or permanent) as a way of avoiding these situations. Transfer to Engage ‘Engage’ is an off-site provision hosted next to the City Academy. It is funded and accessed solely by academies belonging to the Cabot Learning Federation. The off-site provision provides a revolving door provision for students who are currently not engaging in their home academy. Trained staff work with students in small groups or 1-1 to reengage students in education, with the view to the student returning successfully to their original academy or potentially then being in a position to be successful on an NT (see above). As a provision which is an extension of City Academy we do not need parental support to place a student at Engage but we would always endeavour to work with parents and the student to re-engage them in education. Referral to Bristol Inclusion Panel This will be discussed with families on an individual basis. -- 14 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 15 9.8 Physical restraint In some circumstances, staff may use reasonable force to restrain a student to prevent them: • Causing disorder • Hurting themselves or others • Damaging property Incidents of physical restraint must: • Always be used as a last resort • Be applied using the minimum amount of force and for the minimum amount of time possible • Be used in a way that maintains the safety and dignity of all concerned • Never be used as a form of punishment • Be recorded in the number and bound book 9.9 Confiscation Any prohibited items (listed in section 3) found in students’ possession will be confiscated. These items will not be returned to students. We will also confiscate any item which is harmful or detrimental to school discipline. These items will be returned to students after discussion with senior leaders and parents, if appropriate. Searching and screening students is conducted in line with the DfE’s latest guidance on searching, screening and confiscation. 9.10 Searching students Academy staff can search students with their consent for any item which is banned by the academy rules. These items include: • Cigarette lighters • Chewing gum • Mobile phones The Principal and staff authorised by the Principal have the power to search students or their possessions, without consent, where they suspect the student has a prohibited item. If a search takes place, to comply with Safeguarding measures two members of staff will be present during the search. 9.11 Student support The school recognises its legal duty under the Equality Act 2010 to prevent students with a protected characteristic from being at a disadvantage. Consequently, our approach to challenging behaviour may be differentiated to cater to the needs of the student. -- 15 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 16 The school’s Special Educational Needs Co-ordinator (SENCO) will evaluate a student who exhibits challenging behaviour to determine whether they have any underlying needs that are not currently being met. Where necessary, support and advice will also be sought from specialist teachers, an educational psychologist, medical practitioners and/or others, to identify or support specific needs. When acute needs are identified in a student, we will liaise with external agencies and plan support programmes for that child. We will work with parents/carers to create the plan and review it on a regular basis. 9.12 Personalised Learning Centre (PLC) For students who need additional support with their behaviour they will be given a place in the PLC. PLC support is differentiated depending on the students need but can consist of the following support: • KS3 - Morning meeting check -ins • Tuesday and Thursday KS3 revolving door x 7 students • KS4 - Morning check ins • 1:1 sessions 10. Uniform Students who wish to succeed wear the correct Academy uniform. Pride is one of our core values and it is important that our students take pride in themselves and in our Academy. It is important all members of our Academy are treated fairly. If students breach any one part of our strict uniform code then they will either be given some temporary uniform to wear, sent home to change, or will be isolated until their uniform is in line with Academy standards. We will do this to ensure that all our students take pride in their appearance and to make sure that our students are treated fairly. Any uniform issues related to protected characteristics of a student under the Equality Act will be considered individually. What is The City Academy’s uniform? • Black Shoes (no trainers/daps) • Black trousers/skirt • White Shirt (Tucked in) • House Tie • School Blazer • School Jumper is optional No outside coats/hoodies or jumpers are to be worn in the Academy. If a student is seen with such items then these will be removed and placed in the Haven where they can be collected after a discussion with their PSW or Pastoral Lead at the end of the school day. -- 16 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 17 11. Equipment Students who wish to succeed always bring the right equipment to the Academy, for the right lessons, each day. We wish to develop our students’ organisational skills for success in future life. For any important role in life, we need the right equipment and students need to make sure they provide it. Students are expected to bring the following to school: • A sensible and suitable bag • PE Kit (on the days they have PE) • Planner A pencil case that includes the following: • 2 black or blue pens • 2 pencils • A ruler • A rubber Students should store their equipment and books in their personal lockers. Mobile phones are not permitted in the Academy. We understand a student may need a phone for safety reasons. However once arriving at the Academy they must be switched off and kept in lockers (we cannot accept any responsibility for lost or stolen possessions). If a member of staff sees a mobile phone it will be confiscated and will be kept until the end of the day. If a student challenges this request, the phone will be kept until a parent / carer collects it. 12. Student transition To ensure behaviour is continually monitored and the right support is in place, information related to student behaviour issues may be transferred to relevant staff at the start of the term or year. Information on behaviour issues may also be shared with new settings for those students transferring to other schools. 13. Training Our staff are provided with training on managing behaviour, including proper use of restraint, as part of their induction process. Behaviour management will also form part of continuing professional development. There are a team of staff who are Team Teach trained, (please see CLF Team Teach policy). 14. Monitoring arrangements This behaviour policy will be reviewed and approved by the Principal and The Academy Council every 3 years. -- 17 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 18 15. Links with other policies This behaviour policy is linked to the following policies: • Exclusions policy • Safeguarding policy • Anti - Bullying policy • Inclusion • Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy • E Safety • Positive Handling • SEND policy -- 18 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 19 Appendix 1: Written Statement of Behaviour Principles • Every student understands they have the right to feel safe, valued and respected, and learn free from the disruption of others • All students, staff and visitors are free from any form of discrimination • Staff and volunteers set an excellent example to students at all times • Rewards, sanctions and reasonable force are used consistently by staff, in line with the behaviour policy • The behaviour policy is understood by students and staff • The exclusions policy explains that exclusions will only be used as a last resort, and outlines the processes involved in permanent and fixed-term exclusions • Students are helped to take responsibility for their actions • Families are involved in behaviour incidents to foster good relationships between the school and students’ home life The council also emphasises that violence or threatening behaviour will not be tolerated in any circumstances. This written statement of behaviour principles is reviewed and approved by the Academy Council every three years alongside the behaviour policy. -- 19 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 20 Appendix 2: Incident Form Incident form To be used to record an incident. Section one: Student/s involved: Staff members involved: Member of staff leading: (This must be SLT or a PSW) Safeguarding Concern: (If yes, complete an incident log on CPOMS) Physical restraint used (If yes, please complete Number and Bound): Section two: Date of Incident: Time of Incident: Place of Incident: Incident: -- 20 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 21 Section three: Outcome: Checklist- This form is to be completed by the member of staff that is on duty. Action Completed (please mark your initials) Section one of the incident form – Complete the student and staff details Section two of the -Record incident summary Obtain statements from all staff involved (use staff statement form) Obtain statements from all students involved ( use student statement form) Inform parents that an incident has occurred Decision made re outcome and any relevant sanction or referrals. Update Pastoral Log to reflect that an incident has occurred Add outcome to the incident form (inform parents, students and staff of the outcome) Admin -- 21 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 22 Add all documents, to the Incident Folder in the student’s folder. Documents should include Incident form, statements, CCTV and any other relevant documentation. * *Please ensure that they are all dated with the correct name and date relevant to the incident E.g. Aisha Thomas – 18 December 2018 – Fight Blue Village **Please note: A copy should be saved in the student folders, of all students involved in the incident. E.g. If fight involved Aisha Thomas, Jon Angell and Kelly Jefferies. It should be saved in all three student folders. Suggested outcomes: ▪ Link ▪ Exclusion ▪ Immersion ▪ Restorative Conversation ▪ PSHE supportive session ▪ Educational session ▪ SEND referral ▪ Pastoral Support Plan ▪ Pastoral Monitoring Card If it is an Exclusion or an Immersion - please follow the Exclusion or Immersion procedure. -- 22 of 22 --
