Recording your Teaching
UWE Students' Agreement for using Panopto to Record Practice
What is Panopto?
As part of our student development process, we use Panopto software to enable you to securely record parts of your professional practice.  The recordings are stored in a secure cloud environment which you may access at any time during the course.  You will share the recordings with UWE tutors to help support your learning and development.
You can use it:
To focus one element of your practice following an agreed focus (e.g. behaviour management);
To record a whole or part of a session where you want to demonstrate your progress, skills, knowledge, and understanding;
If you have a particular problem which you want to share and gather feedback and/or discussion on that particular concern.
All recordings are for your professional development only. The videos are only to be shared as agreed with UWE. This means that only your university tutor will ever have need of viewing your videos, or (on occasion) with your agreement with other students in your group to demonstrate good practice.
Before using Panopto:
In order to comply with GDPR and other data processing regulations please familarise yourself with the Panopto Authorised User Privacy Policy.
Data protection and safeguarding:
Before you can use Panopto to record your practice, you must have gained permission from the organisation where you are placed.
Whilst the recordings you make will be focused on your practice, the children may/will appear in the video, so it is important to gain consent from parents/carers.  If children will be in your recording, then you must also ensure that you know that you have permission from the parents/carers.
You can check whether the organisations where you are practicing if they have already asked for permission from parents to record their child for the purposes of professional development.
We have a standard letter you can use to send to parents telling them about Panopto and asking for permission and a GDPR statement for parents.
When you are ready to record make sure to consider if there is anyone in the class who cannot be recorded. Please ask the school for a register of students who are not able to be recorded and check each time you use Panopto that they are not in your session.
If permission is not granted you cannot film that child in your class. The child/ children will have to be positioned out of camera shot. If you are unsure of how to position your camera to exclude the child/ children, ensure you conduct a test recording ahead of your session.  You can contact our technical team if you would like support with this: edutech@uwe.ac.uk.
Be mindful that audio data can also be considered personal data so consider if their voice has been recorded and make sure not to use their name/full name.
Have agreed prior to recording with your mentor and/or university tutor the purpose of the recording as part of your professional development and learning development to ensure that all uploaded content is appropriate and aligned with the purpose.
If in doubt, please ask your university tutor or Programme Leader for advice or check with UWE’s Data Protection Officer: dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk. Alternatively, for any concerns or questions, please contact edutech@uwe.ac.uk. Remember the team are there to support and guide you.
Equipment and Technical Requirements
Mobile phones are the most common device used to make recordings.  The Panopto mobile App works with both iOS and Android phones.  This guide provides more information on compatibility:   How to Use the Panopto Mobile App
If you are not able to record on a mobile device, there are other options available.  Please discuss them with the Programme Leader and edutech@uwe.ac.uk
Safety Before Recording:
We always recommend you have a trial run, without the children present, so that you can get comfortable with recording yourself and identify potential hazards.
Make sure recording equipment is positioned so it is visible, safely located, and unlikely to record data which is not for the purpose you are using the system, or which is not required.
Make sure the recording equipment is safely positioned and is not a trip hazard.
Practice First
It is a good idea to become familiar with Panopto before recording your practice.
You may choose to set up your phone/camera in a quiet room and use it to simply record yourself doing a normal activity, such as making a cup of tea. Doing this and viewing it back gets you used to the idea of being on camera.
Alternatively, set up as you would in your classroom, but just record yourself setting up or clearing up at the end of the day. Get used to moving around the room knowing the camera is recording, but without the added pressure of teaching. You will quickly see how easy it is to forget it is there at all!
Sharing with your video:
All recordings are automatically uploaded to your online Panopto account.  https://uwe.cloud.panopto.eu/   You will access Panopto with your main UWE account details.  If asked, select “Blackboard Ultra LTI” to log-in.
You may use any of the tools available to you in Panopto to review, comment, and analyse your recording. Once ready, you will share it with your tutor by adding their email address from the Share section of the Settings menu.
At the end of the academic year all recordings will be deleted, unless we seek permission to use them for future trainee development
So, where do you go for support: Reach out to the EduTech Team:
Remember, we are here for you. You can reach out at any time via email using edutech@uwe.ac.uk
Remember also, you have 24-hour access to IT Services who can be reached using itonline@uwe.ac.uk or via +44 (0)117 32 83612.
Your university tutor and Programme Leader are always there to support you.
Handbook and UWE Policy
Remember you are working with children, and you must always conduct yourself in a professional manner representative of your workplace and UWE.  If you are unsure about anything, you should discuss the issue with your university tutor. Any breach of data rules as outlined above will be subject to the same disciplinary procedures as outlined in the practice handbook.  These are also outlined in the UWE University Professional Suitability and Student Conduct Policies.
Using  the Panopto Programme
Use the online Even Capture tool that UWE provides called Panopto
Follow this link   and log into cloud Panopto
Click on the Create button towards the top of the screen and select Panopto Capture from the menu
Record your presentation after configuring your input devices (Microphone and Camera) using the toolbar on the screen
Once you have stopped recording click the Manage Access buttons that pops up
Click on "Specific people" in the new window that appears and select Anyone wit the link
Copy the link on the Link box in the same window and click on Save changes (This step is very important)
Now, in the box above (in PebblePad) type a title for your presentation, highlight it and use the link tool to put the link that you have copied in Panopto on this page.
You can find more detailed instructions on how to use Panopto Capture here
Note: You can also upload  videos that you have recorded using other tools to Panopto site and make a link to using the instructions above. This is particularly useful if you have a video that is too large to upload to the PebblePad Assets store.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srrbh5Wx73Hc7WM&attachment=false): Dear [name], Re. Panopto Our organisation is deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education and care . As part of this, we work hard to provide the best learning experiences for our staff . As part of our collaboration with the University of the West of England we will be using Panopto . This is a system which enables staff /trainees to record their practice . The focus on the recordings will be on the member of staff. The staff/trainees can watch the recordings back to evaluate their teaching and to share with their teachers and their UWE (University of the West of England) Tutor s to get feedback and advice. The lessons filmed using Panopto are only accessible by the person who recorded them . The recordings are stored on a secure online platform, and will only be shared with other UWE staff, in order to support professional development. Occasionally UWE Tutors will share examples of excellent teaching with other trainee teachers. These lessons are not in the public domain. Only school and UWE staff can view filmed lessons. Panopto is completely secure, GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) compliant , and encrypted in the same way as your online banking . The recordings will all be eras ed at the end of the academic year. Panopto is a valuable part of the IPGCE programme. It helps staff/trainees to progress more effectively and so in turn supports them to provide positive teaching , learning , and caring experiences for your children . If you have any questions or if for any reason you do not wish your child to be involved in filmed lessons, please contact [insert name &amp; e-mail address ] Yours faithfully,

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srrbh5Wx73Hc7WM): Dear [name], Re. Panopto Our organisation is deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education and care . As part of this, we work hard to provide the best learning experiences for our staff . As part of our collaboration with the University of the West of England we will be using Panopto . This is a system which enables staff /trainees to record their practice . The focus on the recordings will be on the member of staff. The staff/trainees can watch the recordings back to evaluate their teaching and to share with their teachers and their UWE (University of the West of England) Tutor s to get feedback and advice. The lessons filmed using Panopto are only accessible by the person who recorded them . The recordings are stored on a secure online platform, and will only be shared with other UWE staff, in order to support professional development. Occasionally UWE Tutors will share examples of excellent teaching with other trainee teachers. These lessons are not in the public domain. Only school and UWE staff can view filmed lessons. Panopto is completely secure, GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) compliant , and encrypted in the same way as your online banking . The recordings will all be eras ed at the end of the academic year. Panopto is a valuable part of the IPGCE programme. It helps staff/trainees to progress more effectively and so in turn supports them to provide positive teaching , learning , and caring experiences for your children . If you have any questions or if for any reason you do not wish your child to be involved in filmed lessons, please contact [insert name &amp; e-mail address ] Yours faithfully,

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf5ynsh85ZzMc5r&attachment=false): Panopto Privacy Notice (How we use pupil information) As a n organisation, we are deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education to pupils. In order to do this, we must also provide the best learning experiences for our staff . For that reason we will be using Panopto to ensure that they have the opportunity to develop to their full potential. The categories of pupil information that we process through Panopto include: Images, audio and video recording Why we collect and use pupil information through Panopto To support pupil learning through learning and professional development. Under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the lawful bases we rely on for processing pupil information are: for the purposes of training in accordance with the legal basis of public task Collecting pupil information through Panopto We collect pupil information via Panopto in the form of video and audio recordings. Storing pupil data in Panopto Our training partner, University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE, Bristol) c ontract s with Panopto to hold pupil data securely until UWE Bristol either instructs the data to be deleted or ends the contract. Who we share Panopto pupil information with UWE, Bristol . Why we share pupil information through Panopto The use of this system enables our staff/ trainees to collaborate around practice and gain feedback from exp erts . Requesting access to your personal data Under data protection legislation, parents and pupils have the right to request access to inf ormation about them held in IRIS Connect. A full list of the rights for data subjects can be found on the UK government website . To make a request please contact UWE, Bristol’s Data Protection Office dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf5ynsh85ZzMc5r): Panopto Privacy Notice (How we use pupil information) As a n organisation, we are deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education to pupils. In order to do this, we must also provide the best learning experiences for our staff . For that reason we will be using Panopto to ensure that they have the opportunity to develop to their full potential. The categories of pupil information that we process through Panopto include: Images, audio and video recording Why we collect and use pupil information through Panopto To support pupil learning through learning and professional development. Under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the lawful bases we rely on for processing pupil information are: for the purposes of training in accordance with the legal basis of public task Collecting pupil information through Panopto We collect pupil information via Panopto in the form of video and audio recordings. Storing pupil data in Panopto Our training partner, University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE, Bristol) c ontract s with Panopto to hold pupil data securely until UWE Bristol either instructs the data to be deleted or ends the contract. Who we share Panopto pupil information with UWE, Bristol . Why we share pupil information through Panopto The use of this system enables our staff/ trainees to collaborate around practice and gain feedback from exp erts . Requesting access to your personal data Under data protection legislation, parents and pupils have the right to request access to inf ormation about them held in IRIS Connect. A full list of the rights for data subjects can be found on the UK government website . To make a request please contact UWE, Bristol’s Data Protection Office dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk
