# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sr36mZ8swHntwxW

Department of Education and Childhood Award Route: Assignment/Presentation Feedback Sheet : Level 6 Student number : Student name: (if known) Module code: Agreed recommended grade: (subject to confirmation of examining board) Module title: Learning and Teaching UTL H-44-3 Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Minimal coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is l ittle or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas . A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice . There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Strengths of this work, with examples: Specific guidance, with examples, to help you improve your work in future assignments: Comments on quality of academic writing/presentation skills including UWE Harvard referencing: First Marker Second Marker Date Date Student response Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with APT) 1. 2. 3.
