# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srWngd4xsgmdbzc&attachment=false

Overview What should it sound like What should it look like Researching your presentation Support Assessment A Presentation

Presentation -25% of Module marks Record and upload 20 mins of teaching using Iris Connect and upload to its secure platform. Prepare and record a 12-minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management and /or Effective Teaching strategies. Hand In: 18 th December 2.00 GMT (48 hour no penalty window applies)

What would the presentation sound like? A brief introduction to the content of the lesson. The learning objective of the lesson is also useful. A signposting on what sub-themes you will discuss e.g., if discussing behaviour management perhaps discussing routines in the class, positive feedback and relationships with students. Take each sub-theme and link to an example in your teaching. Relate the theme to the literature on that area e.g., positive feedback to behaviourism literature. Offer a range of viewpoints (not necessarily opposing ) on that sub –theme from a wide range of literature.

What would the presentation sound like? Offer your own critical comment on the theory and how you think it applies to the classroom or not e.g., It is difficult not to talk over Power points, causing cognitive load, as the purpose of the Power points is also to give the students a reference for further private study. You may want to offer an alternate approach e.g., providing a different set of resources for private study

Researching your Presentation Start with the texts you have read for the course Widen your reading- try using the library search and Google Scholar for journal articles relevant to your chosen topics. If they are research articles, read the abstract to see if it relevant to you. If it looks relevant read the first couple of paragraphs and the conclusion. Criticality can also come from being critical of your sources- think when looking at the article whether it is very dated, from a country very different to yours, whether it used a very small sample, if it has a political agenda. This can be briefly mentioned in your presentation. Keep track of what you have read and page numbers of quotes. Make sure you supply a link to your teaching recording.

Reflecting on your own Teaching You may want to conclude the presentation by reflecting on your won teaching.

What will it look like? Don’t put all your words on the slides- try using a few prompts on the slides. There is a temptation to make the slides animated, and colourful- remember you are not assessed on the design. References on the slides only need to be the author and date e.g. Edmonds, 2024). Provide a list of the references you used using UWE Harvard referencing (see library skill website) on your last slide. (12-20) Don’t exceed the time limit. We stop marking at 12 minutes. References don’t have to be part of the 12 minutes.

Support We will have a assessment drop-in for questions. Questions can also be put on the Padlet. Your tutor will meet you 1-1 to discuss the content. Send an outline to your tutor, not your slides, for feedback. Look at the library skills study website for help. There are instructions on recording and uploading your presentation below.

My Teaching Recording Effective Teaching Strategies. Yr. 6 Science lesson on Electricity Mixed ability class of 30. Learning Objective:

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading
