# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfWmGdhwqm56tfy

Education and Child hood aCADEMIC YEAR 202 5 /2 6 Assessment Brief Submission details Module title : Learning and Teaching Module code : UTTGXF-30-M / UTH44-30-3 Assessment title: Assessmet A presentation Assessment type : Recorded session of teaching and 12 minute presentation with a targeted reflection on aspects of the teaching . Assessment weighting: 25 % of total module mark Size or length of assessment: 20 minute recording of teaching and 12 minute presentation Assessment Content Limit Policy for the University (sharepoint.com) Module learning outcomes assessed by this task: MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Assessment A Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. See the video on Pebblepad for further guidance AI Use of AI in assessment: please refer to the UWE categorisation guidance for using Generative AI in assessments . Guidance on Referencing ( inc AI) : Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood a range of sources to evidence your key points. You need to list the references consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for themselves. Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol Submission and feedback dates Submission deadline: 18 th of December 2025 Before 14:00 GMT eligible for 48 hour late submission window ( no penalty) Submission format: Panopto video or , for presentation, Powerpoint slides with audio. All submissions should be made via the Pebblepad portal, which will appear on the ass essments tab of the Learners and Teachers module page . A video is supplied to support the uploading and giving permission process. You will receive informal feedback verbally through all teaching sessions – ensure you listen carefully. Each assessment you submit will be returned to you with written feedback and consists of comments made by tutors on students’ assessed work which enables students to understand how they have met the defined assessment criteria and identifying areas for further improvement. The period for providing feedback will not normally exceed 20 working days (excluding University closure days) following the deadline for submission of the assessment concerned. This period may be shorter or longer for some forms of assessment. Where the period is greater than 20 working days, students will be informed of the deadline and the rationale for the extension . Outcomes which have not been confirmed by an examining board shall be considered as unconfirmed. Marks and Feedback due in: January. 20 working days after submission date . N.B. all times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK Marks and Feedback will be provided via: Feedback with take the form of comments on your script (if written ( and a feedback form. This will be sent to you by your tutor. Completing your assessment Guidance on the assignment and exemplars are available on the assessment tab in Pebblepad . What am I required to do on this assessment? Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. Make sure you have given your tutor permission to view the video . This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. Where should I start? Start by recording some of your teaching. It can be a normal teaching session. Watch the recording back and think about what went well and what could have been improved. Then focus on the themes above and start to read around those themes. What do I need to do to pass? The pass mark for masters level work is 50% and 40% for level 6.There are examples of the ark sheets on Pebblepad . I recommend you look at them carefully . How do I achieve high marks in this assessment? There is an exemplar of an assignment that achieved a very high mark on P ebblepad . These assignments will be reflective, draw on a range of appropriate literature to provide a range of viewpoints on the themes. They will draw on an extensive range of literature and have a great deal on critical comment on their own practice as well as the literature. There will be a well developed argument throughout and the assignment will make reference to the departments equity and diversity values. How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment? All of the content of the module will be helpful but specifically the units on effective teaching strategies and behaviour management . What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? We will run an assessment Q and A session and small group tutorials to discuss your content. There is also a questions board on Pebblepad and a FAQs page. Try the s pecific UWE library study skills pages i.e. https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link How to give a presentation Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? It is recommended that y ou review all of the relevant materials on Pebblepad . You can also speak to your module leader for advice and guidance. UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link , and both Student Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. For further information, please see the Student study essentials . How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module? Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module. We have recently had a number of students fail their assessments through an inappropriate use of AI. Please use it for rephrasing and doing synopses of articles but remember it makes content up. See academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures Marks and Feedback Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. Assessment Your assessment submission will be marked by a tutor with expertise in your subject discipline. It will be assessed against the following domains: M-Level / Level 6 Criteria: A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. . In line with UWE Bristol’s Assessment Content Limit Policy (formerly the Word Count Policy), w ord count includes all text, including (but not limited to): the main body of text (including headings), all citations (both in and out of brackets), text boxes, tables and graphs, figures and diagrams, quotes, lists. UWE Bristol’s Academic Conduct Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedures (Assessment Offence Policy) is available from the Academic Integrity webpages and requires that you submit work that is entirely your own and reflects your own learning , so it is important to: Ensure you reference all sources used, using the UWE Harvard system and the guidance available on UWE’s Study Skills referencing pages . Refer to peer reviewed primary sources, rather than using AI or secondary sources Avoid copying and pasting any work into this assessment, including your own previous assessments , work from other students or internet sources Develop your own style, argument s and wording, so avoid copying sources and chang ing individual words but keep ing , essentially, the same sentences and/or structures from other sources Never give your work to others who may copy it If an individual assessment, develop your own work and preparation, and do not allow anyone to make amends on your work (including proof-readers, who may highlight issues but not edit the work) . When submitting your work, you will be required to confirm that the work is your own, and text-matching software and other methods are routinely used to check submissions against other submissions to the university and internet sources. Details of what constitutes plagiarism and how to avoid it can be found on UWE’s Study Skills pages about avoiding plagiarism .
