# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfrpk5qM6fzkMHr

UWE Student s Agreement for using Panopto to Record Practice What is Panopto? As part of our student development process, we use Panopto software to enable you to securely record parts of your professional practice . The recordings are stored in a secure cloud environment which you may access at any time during the course. You will share the recordings with UWE tutors to help support your learning and development. You can use it : To f ocus one element of your practice following an agreed focus (e.g. EYFS ) ; To r ecord a whole or part of a session where you want to demonstrate your progress , skills, knowledge , and understanding ; If you have a particular problem which you want to share and gather feedback and/or discussion on that particular concern . All recordings are for your professional development only. The videos are only to be shared as agreed with UWE. This means that only your university tutor will ever have need of viewing your videos, or ( on occasion ) with your agreement with other students in your group to demonstrate good practice. Before using Panopto : In order to comply with GDPR and other data processing regulations please familarise yourself with the Panopto Authorised User Privacy Policy . Data protection and safeguarding: Before you can use Panopto to record your practice , you must have gained perm i ssion from the organisation where you are placed . Whilst the recording s you make will be focused on your practice, the children may/will appear in the video, so it is important to gain consent from parents/carers. If children will be in your recording, then you must also ensure that you know that you have permission from the parents/carers. You can c heck whether the organisations where you are practicing if they have already asked for permission from parents to record their child for the purposes of professional development. We have a standard letter you can use to send to parents telling them about Panopto and asking for permission. When you are ready to record make sure to consider if there is anyone in the class who cannot be recorded. Please ask the school for a register of students who are not able to be recorded and check each time you use Panopto that they are not in your session . If permission is not granted you cannot film that child in your class. The child/ children will have to be positioned out of camera shot. If you are unsure of how to position your camera to exclude the child/ children, ensure you conduct a test recording ahead of your session. You can contact our technical team if you would like support with this: edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Be mindful that audio data can also be considered personal data so consider if their voice has been recorded and make sure not to use their name/full name. Have agreed prior to recording with your mentor and/or university tutor the purpose of the recording as part of your professional development and learning development to ensure that all uploaded content is appropriate and aligned with the purpose. If in doubt, please ask your university tuto r or Programme Leader for advice or check with UWE’s Data Protection Officer: dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk . Alternatively, for any concerns or questions, please contact edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Remember the team are there to support and guide you. Equipment and Technical Requirements Mobile phones are the most common device used to make recordings. The Panopto mobile App works with both iOS and Android phones. This guide provides more information on compatibility: How to Use the Panopto Mobile App If you are not able to record on a mobile device, there are other option s available. Please discuss them with the Programme Leader and edutech@uwe.ac.uk S afety Before Recording: We always recommend you have a trial run , without the children present , so that you can get comfortable with recording yourself and identify potential hazards. Make sure recording equipment is positioned so it is visible, safely located, and unlikely to record data which is not for the purpose you are using the system, or which is not required. Make sure the recording equipment is safely positioned and is not a trip hazard. Practice First It is a good idea to become familiar with Panopto before recording your practice . You may choose to set up your phone/camera in a quiet room and use it to simply record yourself doing a normal activity, such as making a cup of tea. Doing this and viewing it back gets you used to the idea of being on camera. Alternatively, set up as you would in your classroom, but just record yourself setting up or clearing up at the end of the day. Get used to moving around the room knowing the camera is recording, but without the added pressure of teaching. You will quickly see how easy it is to forget it is there at all! Sharing with your video : All recordings are automatically uploaded to your online Panopto account . https://uwe.cloud.panopto.eu/ You will access Panopto wit h your main UWE account details. If asked, s elect “Blackboard Ultra LTI” to log-in. You may use any of the tools available to you in Panopto to review, comment , and analyse your recording . Once ready , you will share it with your tutor by adding ipg ceEY@uwe.ac.uk from the Share section of the Settings menu. At the end of the academic year all recordings will be deleted, unless we seek permission to use them for future trainee development So, where do you go for support: Reach out to the EduTech Team: Remember, we are here for you. You can reach out at any time via email using edutech@uwe.ac.uk Remember also, you have 24-hour access to IT Services who can be reached using itonline@uwe.ac.uk or via +44 (0)117 32 83612. Your university tutor and Programme Leader are always there to support you. Handbook and UWE Policy Remember you are working with children, and y ou must always conduct yourself in a professional manner representative of your workplace and UWE . If you are unsure about anything, you should discuss the issue with your university tutor. Any breach of data rules as outlined above will be subject to the same disciplinary procedures as outlined in the practice handbook . These are also outlined in the UWE University Professional Suitability and Student Conduct Policies. Please confirm you have read and understood the above Name: Date: Once you have agreed to this form, please send it through to your tutor.
