Unit 4 Step 4
Behaviour Policies.
Learning Outcomes
Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice international Primary/secondary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the Primary/secondary Foundation Stage, and their contexts, recognising their potential implications for learning and teaching in international contexts.
Activities
 1. Read pages 15-21 of the UK government's guidance on behaviour
Behaviour in Schools - Advice for headteachers and school staff Feb 2024
Write down five points you learnt from this section. Also write down any points you find interesting or don’t agree with. Put them on the Padlet below.
2. Access your school or setting's behaviour policy or access this sample policy
A sample behaviour policy
Then answer the questions below.
3. Observe a class teacher in your setting for 30 mins and identify the routines they use, how they foster the relationships with the pupils and how their reactions and responses to behaviour influence the ethos in the classroom. Comment below.
4. If you work in a school where the students have experienced national or family trauma or have a large number of ACES (Adverse Childhood Experiences) you might be interested in this schools' approach informed by Trauma Informed schools.
Video of school using trauma informed approach
What kind of strategies are advocated in the policy/ your school policy?
What kind of strategies are advocated in the policy/ your school policy? multi-line text editor.
What do they say about your institution's values?
What do they say about your institution's values? multi-line text editor.
Teacher's actions and responses.
See above.
Teacher's actions and responses. multi-line text editor.
Give examples of strategies your school uses to develop routines, relationships and reactions to behaviour.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked PDF text excerpt (https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/65ce3721e1bdec001a3221fe/Behaviour_in_schools_-_advice_for_headteachers_and_school_staff_Feb_2024.pdf): Behaviour in Schools Advice for headteachers and school staff February 2024 -- 1 of 34 -- 2 Contents About this guidance 4 Expiry or review date 4 Who is this publication for? 4 Introduction 5 Creating and maintaining high standards of behaviour 6 Communicating the behaviour policy 9 A whole-school approach to behaviour 10 The school behaviour curriculum 10 The role of school leaders 11 The role of teachers and staff 12 The role of pupils 12 The role of parents 13 Behaviour expectations and pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND) 13 Responding to behaviour 15 Responding to good behaviour 15 Responding to misbehaviour 15 Acceptable forms of sanction 16 Responding to the behaviour of pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND) 18 Supporting pupils following a sanction 19 Detentions 20 The use of reasonable force 21 Searching, screening and confiscation 22 Removal from classrooms 22 Suspension and permanent exclusion 25 Managed moves 25 Behaviour outside of school premises 25 Preventing recurrence of misbehaviour 27 Initial intervention following behavioural incidents 27 Pupil support units 28 -- 2 of 34 -- 3 Reintegration 29 Monitoring and evaluating school behaviour 30 Guidance on specific behaviour issues 31 Child-on-child sexual violence and sexual harassment 31 Behaviour incidents online 32 Mobile phones 32 Suspected criminal behaviour 33 -- 3 of 34 -- 4 About this guidance This publication provides advice to schools on behaviour in schools and the related legal duties of headteachers, and members of staff. It includes guidance on support for pupils to behave well and the powers of staff when responding to misbehaviour. This non-statutory guidance should not be taken as a complete or definitive statement of the law nor as a substitute for the relevant legislation. Legal advice should be sought as appropriate. It is for individual schools to develop their own best practice for managing behaviour. The purpose of the document is to provide guidance to schools and multi-academy trusts to support them to improve and maintain high standards of behaviour. Creating a culture with high expectations of behaviour will benefit both staff and pupils, establishing calm, safe and supportive environments conducive to learning. The terms “must” and “should” are used throughout the guidance. Where the text uses the word “must”, the person in question is legally required to do something. Where the text uses the word ‘parent’, it should be read as inclusive of carers and any other person with parental responsibility. Expiry or review date This guidance will be kept under review and updated as necessary. Who is this publication for? This guidance is for: • school leaders, school staff, governing bodies, trust boards and proprietors in all maintained schools, academies and free schools and independent schools in England; • local authorities; • for the purposes of this advice, references to “maintained school” means a community, foundation or voluntary school, community or foundation special school, and maintained nursery school. It also means Pupil Referral Units and non-maintained special schools; and • for the purpose of this advice, references to “academy” means academy schools (including mainstream and special free schools) and alternative provision academies (including alternative provision free schools). -- 4 of 34 -- 5 Introduction Good behaviour in schools is central to a good education. Schools need to manage behaviour well so they can provide calm, safe and supportive environments which children and young people want to attend and where they can learn and thrive. Being taught how to behave well and appropriately within the context they’re in is vital for all pupils to succeed personally. Many schools successfully create environments in which behaviour is good and pupils can learn and feel safe. Some schools need to improve their approach to behaviour and even successful schools need to be continually working to maintain high standards of behaviour. Where behaviour is poor, pupils can suffer from issues as diverse as lost learning time, child-on-child abuse, anxiety, bullying, violence, and distress. It can cause some children to stay away from school, missing vital learning time. Similarly, continually dealing with misbehaviour negatively affects the wellbeing of teachers and, for some, it is a reason why they leave the profession. Well-managed schools create cultures where pupils and staff flourish in safety and dignity. It is particularly important that headteachers lead the creation and reinforcement of this culture, ensuring it permeates through every aspect of school life. Staff should be trained to make sure that they collectively embody this school culture, upholding the schools’ behaviour policy at all times and responding to misbehaviour consistently and fairly. Schools can create environments where positive behaviours are more likely by proactively supporting pupils to behave appropriately. Pupils should be taught explicitly what good behaviour looks like. Some pupils will need additional support to reach the expected standard of behaviour. Where possible, this support should be identified and put in place as soon as possible to avoid misbehaviour occurring in the first place. When pupils do misbehave, schools should be able to respond promptly, predictably and with confidence to maintain a calm, safe learning environment, and then consider how such behaviour can be prevented from recurring. To support these aims, this guidance outlines different responses to behaviour that schools can use, including sanctions and pastoral approaches. In some cases, particularly when a pupil is persistently disruptive and support or sanctions are not deterring misbehaviour, further action may be needed. This guidance provides advice on interventions and approaches schools may wish to take to prevent the recurrence of misbehaviour. In serious instances, a pupil may need to be suspended or excluded and schools should read the Department’s specific guidance on suspension and permanent exclusion to ensure that they use these interventions appropriately. -- 5 of 34 -- 6 Creating and maintaining high standards of behaviour Creating a culture that promotes excellent behaviour requires a clear vision of what good behaviour looks like. Schools’ circumstances will vary but every culture should ensure pupils can learn in a calm, safe, and supportive environment and protect them from disruption. Schools should be clear about which behaviours are permitted and prohibited; the values, attitudes, and beliefs they promote and the social norms and routines that should be encouraged throughout the school community. The behaviour policy is the starting point for laying out this vision and is one of the important ways the school culture is communicated to pupils, staff, and parents and carers.1 It is equally important that the behaviour policy is implemented effectively to create a positive behaviour culture in which pupils are encouraged to reflect the values of the school. All headteachers should take responsibility for implementing measures to secure acceptable standards of behaviour. They should ensure the school’s approach to behaviour meets the following national minimum expectation:2 a) the school has high expectations of pupils’ conduct and behaviour, which is commonly understood by staff and pupils and applied consistently and fairly to help create a calm and safe environment; b) school leaders visibly and consistently supporting all staff in managing pupil behaviour through following the behaviour policy; c) measures are in place and both general and targeted interventions are used to improve pupil behaviour and support is provided to all pupils to help them meet behaviour standards, making reasonable adjustments for pupils with a disability as required; d) pupil behaviour does not normally disrupt teaching, learning or school routines. Disruption is not tolerated, and proportionate action is taken to restore acceptable standards of behaviour; e) all members of the school community create a positive, safe environment in which bullying, physical threats or abuse and intimidation are not tolerated, in which pupils are safe and feel safe and everyone is treated respectfully; and 1 Henceforth, any reference to the term “parent” is inclusive of “carers” and anyone else with parental responsibility. 2 The national minimum expectation of behaviour is aligned with the Ofsted ‘good’ grade descriptor for assessing Behaviour and Attitudes. -- 6 of 34 -- 7 f) any incidents of bullying, discrimination, aggression, and derogatory language (including name calling) are dealt with quickly and effectively. For all schools, establishing and maintaining high standards of behaviour is not only vital in ensuring that teachers can deliver the curriculum, but also plays a critical role in ensuring that the school is a safe environment for all pupils. The behaviour policy should be aligned with the school’s legal duties and standards relating to the welfare of children. All staff should be aware of the measures outlined in the school’s behaviour policy and how they should implement these measures - this is one of the key systems in place in schools which supports safeguarding.3 It is essential that all staff are aware of their safeguarding responsibilities, as set out in statutory guidance Part 1 of Keeping children safe in education (KCSIE). KCSIE is clear that all school staff have a responsibility to provide a safe environment in which pupils can learn. The school behaviour policy should be designed to bear this in mind. As part of taking a whole-school approach to behaviour and safeguarding, it will be important that the respective policies complement one another. Where circumstances arise that endanger the safety of a pupil or staff member, the school should act swiftly and decisively to remove the threat and reduce the likelihood of its reoccurrence. Developing a school behaviour policy A school’s culture and values are manifested through the behaviour of all its members. High standards and clear rules should reflect the values of the school and outline the expectations and consequences of behaviour for everyone. The school’s behaviour policy should provide details on how staff will support pupils to meet these expectations. The headteacher of a maintained school must determine measures which aim to: • encourage good behaviour and respect for others; • secure an acceptable standard of behaviour of pupils; • promote, among pupils, self-discipline and proper regard for authority; • prevent all forms of bullying (including cyberbullying, prejudice-based and discriminatory bullying); 3 Other systems all staff should be aware of include the school’s child protection policy, the staff behaviour policy/code of conduct, the safeguarding response to children who go missing from education and the role and identity of the designated safeguarding lead and any deputies. -- 7 of 34 -- 8 • ensure that pupils complete any tasks reasonably assigned to them in connection with their education; and • otherwise regulate the conduct of pupils.4 The headteacher of a maintained school must act in accordance with the current statement of behaviour principles made by the governing body and have regard to any guidance provided by the governing body on promoting good behaviour at the school.5 This is a core responsibility of a headteacher. It cannot be delegated. Detailed advice for governors is available in Behaviour and discipline in schools: Guidance for governing bodies. The proprietor of an academy or independent school must ensure that a written policy to promote good behaviour among pupils is drawn up and implemented effectively. The behaviour policy must also set out the disciplinary sanctions.6 The proprietor must also ensure that an effective anti-bullying strategy is drawn up and implemented so that bullying is prevented, as far as is reasonably practicable.7 A behaviour policy should include detail on the following: a) purpose – including the underlying objectives of the policy, and how it creates a safe environment in which all pupils can learn and reach their full potential; b) leadership and management – including the role of designated staff and leaders, any systems used, the resources allocated and engagement of governors/trustees; c) school systems and social norms – including rules, routines, and consequence systems; d) staff induction, development and support – including regular training for staff on behaviour; e) pupil transition – including induction and re-induction into behaviour systems, rules, and routines; f) pupil support – including the roles and responsibilities of designated staff and the support provided to pupils with additional needs where those needs might affect behaviour; 4 Section 89(1) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. 5 Sections 88(2) and 89(2) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. 6 Education (Independent School Standards) (England) Regulations 2014, Schedule 1, paragraph 9. 7 Education (Independent School Standards) (England) Regulations 2014, Schedule 1, paragraph 10. -- 8 of 34 -- 9 g) child-on-child abuse – including measures to prevent child-on-child abuse and the response to incidents of such abuse; and h) banned items – a list of items which are banned by the school and for which a search can be made. i) mobile phones – a clear approach prohibiting the use of mobile phones in school throughout the school day The school behaviour policy should adhere to the following principles: a) accessible and easily understood: clear and easily understood by pupils, staff and parents; b) aligned and coherent: aligned to other key policy documents;8 c) inclusive: consider the needs of all pupils and staff, so all members of the school community can feel safe and that they belong;9 d) consistent and detailed: have sufficient detail to ensure meaningful and consistent implementation by all members; and e) supportive: address how pupils will be supported to meet high standards of behaviour. Communicating the behaviour policy Communicating the school policy to all members of the community is an important way of building and maintaining the school’s culture. It helps make behaviour expectations transparent to all pupils, parents, and staff members, and provides reassurance that expectations of, and responses to, behaviour are consistent, fair, proportionate, and predictable. For maintained schools, the headteacher must publicise the school behaviour policy in writing to parents, staff, and pupils at least once a year.10 The school’s behaviour policy must also be published on the school website.11 Where the school does not have a 8 Key policy documents include, if applicable, special educational needs and disability policy, school uniform policy, the staff behaviour policy/code of conduct, and safeguarding arrangements, in particular the child protection policy. 9 Headteachers should have regard to the Mental health and behaviour in schools guidance and must have regard to the Special educational needs and disability 0-25 years code of practice so that appropriate support can be provided to pupils who have additional needs. 10 Section 89(6) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. 11 School Information (England) Regulations 2008. -- 9 of 34 -- 10 website, the governing body must make arrangements for the behaviour policy to be put on a website and to make the address and details (of the website) known to parents. Academies and independent schools should publish details of the school’s behaviour policy. A whole-school approach to behaviour Schools should ensure that high standards and expectations of good behaviour pervade all aspects of school life including the culture, ethos, and values of the school, how pupils are taught and encouraged to behave,12 the response to misbehaviour and the relationships between staff, pupils and parents. The school’s approach to behaviour should be easily apparent to anyone joining or visiting the school. Everyone should treat one another with dignity, kindness and respect. The consistent and fair implementation of the measures outlined in the behaviour policy is central to an effective whole-school approach to behaviour. Consistent implementation helps to create a predictable environment. Some pupils may require additional support to meet a school’s behaviour expectations. This support should be given consistently and predictably, applied fairly and only where necessary. By having simple, clear and well communicated expectations of behaviour and providing staff with bespoke training on the needs of the pupils at the school, behaviour can be managed consistently so that both pupils and staff can thrive, achieve and build positive relationships based on predictability, fairness and trust. The school behaviour curriculum Positive behaviour reflects the values of the school, readiness to learn and respect for others. It is established through creating an environment where good conduct is more likely and poor conduct less likely. This behaviour should be taught to all pupils, so that they understand what behaviour is expected and encouraged and what is prohibited. This then requires positive reinforcement when expectations are met, while sanctions are required where rules are broken. Positive reinforcement and sanctions are both important and necessary to support the whole-school culture. A behaviour curriculum defines the expected behaviours in school, rather than only a list of prohibited behaviours. It is centred on what successful behaviour looks like and defines it clearly for all parties. For example, ‘pupils are expected to line up quietly 12 More guidance is provided in ‘The school behaviour curriculum’ and ‘Preventing recurrence of misbehaviour’. -- 10 of 34 -- 11 outside a classroom. A behaviour curriculum does not need to be exhaustive, but represent the key habits and routines required in the school. Routines should be used to teach and reinforce the behaviours expected of all pupils. Repeated practices promote the values of the school, positive behavioural norms, and certainty on the consequences of unacceptable behaviour. Any aspect of behaviour expected from pupils should be made into a commonly understood routine, for example, entering class or clearing tables at lunchtime. These routines should be simple for everyone to understand and follow. Adjustments can be made to routines for pupils with additional needs, where appropriate and reasonable, to ensure all pupils can meet behavioural expectations. These adjustments may be temporary. Adjustments should be made proactively and by design where possible. For example, a pupil who has recently experienced a bereavement may need to be pre-emptively excused from a routine to give them time and space away from their peers. The adjustments needed for those pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND), whose condition may at times affect their behaviour, are set out in the section ‘Behaviour expectations and pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND)’. Schools should be mindful that not all pupils requiring support with behaviour will have identified special educational needs or disabilities. Consistent and clear language should be used when acknowledging positive behaviour and addressing misbehaviour. The role of school leaders The school leadership team should be highly visible, with leaders routinely engaging with pupils, parents and staff on setting and maintaining the behaviour culture and an environment where everyone feels safe and supported. School leaders have a crucial role to play in making sure all staff understand the behavioural expectations and the importance of maintaining them. School leaders should make sure that all new staff are inducted clearly into the school’s behaviour culture to ensure they understand its rules and routines and how best to support all pupils to participate in creating the culture of the school. School leaders should consider any appropriate training which is required for staff to meet their duties and functions within the behaviour policy. Schools should consider aligning this training with the new Initial Teacher Training (ITT) Core Content Framework and the Early Career Framework (ECF) together with the reformed suite of National Professional Qualifications. The National Professional Qualification in Leading Behaviour and Culture (NPQLBC) is available for primary and secondary school teachers who have, or are aspiring to have, responsibilities for leading behaviour or supporting pupil wellbeing in their school. The -- 11 of 34 -- 12 NPQLBC provides essential knowledge, skills and concepts that underpin successful leadership of behaviour and culture. All teachers and school leaders in state-funded schools, as well as state-funded 16-19 organisations, are now eligible to undertake NPQs funded by the Department for Education. Schools will also wish to ensure that their staff have adequate training on matters such as how certain special educational needs, disabilities, or mental health needs13 may at times affect a pupil’s behaviour. Ongoing engagement with experts, such as Educational Psychologists and other support staff such as counsellors and Mental Health Support Teams, can help to inform effective implementation, and even design, of behaviour policies – making links to whole school approaches to mental health and wellbeing as set out in the Mental health and behaviour in schools guidance. The role of teachers and staff Staff have an important role in developing a calm and safe environment for pupils and establishing clear boundaries of acceptable pupil behaviour. Staff should uphold the whole-school approach to behaviour by teaching and modelling expected behaviour and positive relationships, as defined by the school behaviour policy, so that pupils can see examples of good habits and are confident to ask for help when needed. Staff should also challenge pupils to meet the school expectations and maintain the boundaries of acceptable conduct. All staff should communicate the school expectations, routines, values and standards both explicitly through teaching behaviour and in every interaction with pupils. Staff should consider the impact of their own behaviour on the school culture and how they can uphold the school rules and expectations. Staff should also receive clear guidance about school expectations of their own conduct at school.14 The role of pupils All pupils deserve to learn in an environment that is calm, safe, supportive and where they are treated with dignity. To achieve this, every pupil should be made aware of the school behaviour standards, expectations, pastoral support, and consequence processes. Pupils should be taught that they have a duty to follow the school behaviour policy and uphold the school rules, and should contribute to the school culture. Pupils should be asked about their experience of behaviour and provide feedback on the 13 See the Mental health and behaviour in schools guidance for advice on supporting pupils whose mental health issues manifest themselves in behaviour. 14 See part 2 of the Teachers’ Standards which outlines the high standards of personal and professional conduct expected of teachers. -- 12 of 34 -- 13 school’s behaviour culture. This can help support the evaluation, improvement and implementation of the behaviour policy. Every pupil should be supported to achieve the behaviour standards, including an induction process that familiarises them with the school behaviour culture. Schools might wish to repeat elements of this induction for all pupils at suitable points in the academic year. Provision should be made for all new pupils to ensure they understand the school’s behaviour policy and wider culture. Where necessary, extra support and induction should be provided for pupils who are mid-phase arrivals. The role of parents The role of parents is crucial in helping schools develop and maintain good behaviour. To support the school, parents should be encouraged to get to know the school’s behaviour policy and, where possible, take part in the life of the school and its culture. Parents have an important role in supporting the school’s behaviour policy and should be encouraged to reinforce the policy at home as appropriate. Where a parent has a concern about management of behaviour, they should raise this directly with the school while continuing to work in partnership with them. Schools should reinforce the whole-school approach by building and maintaining positive relationships with parents, for example, by keeping parents updated about their children’s behaviour, encouraging parents to celebrate pupils’ successes, or holding sessions for parents to help them understand the school’s behaviour policy. Where appropriate, parents should be included in any pastoral work following misbehaviour, including attending reviews of specific behaviour interventions in place. Behaviour expectations and pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND) A school’s culture should consistently promote high standards of behaviour and provide the necessary support to ensure all pupils can achieve and thrive both in and out of the classroom. Schools should consider how a whole-school approach meets the needs of all pupils in the school, including pupils with SEND, so that everyone can feel they belong in the school community and high expectations are maintained for all pupils. Schools with good behaviour cultures will create calm environments which will benefit pupils with SEND, enabling them to learn. Some behaviours are more likely be associated with particular types of SEND, such as a pupil with speech, language and communication needs who may not understand a verbal instruction. Behaviour will often need to be considered in relation to a pupil’s SEND, although it does not follow that every incident of misbehaviour will be connected to their SEND. -- 13 of 34 -- 14 Schools need to manage pupil behaviour effectively, whether or not the pupil has underlying needs. When a pupil is identified as having SEND, the graduated approach should be used to assess, plan, deliver and then review the impact of the support being provided.15 The law also requires schools to balance a number of duties which will have bearing on their behaviour policy and practice, particularly where a pupil has SEND that at times affects their behaviour. In particular: • schools have duties under the Equality Act 2010 to take such steps as is reasonable to avoid any substantial disadvantage to a disabled pupil caused by the school’s policies or practices;16 • under the Children and Families Act 2014, relevant settings have a duty to use their ‘best endeavours’ to meet the needs of those with SEND;17 and • if a pupil has an Education, Health and Care plan, the provisions set out in that plan must be secured and the school must co-operate with the local authority and other bodies.18 As part of meeting any of these duties, schools should, as far as possible, anticipate likely triggers of misbehaviour and put in place support to prevent these. Illustrative examples of preventative measures include (but are not limited to): • short, planned movement breaks for a pupil whose SEND means that they find it difficult to sit still for long; • adjusting seating plans to allow a pupil with visual or hearing impairment to sit in sight of the teacher; • adjusting uniform requirements for a pupil with sensory issues or who has severe eczema; • training for staff in understanding conditions such as autism. Any preventative measure should take into account the specific circumstances and requirements of the pupil concerned. 15 See chapter 6 of the SEND code of practice: 0 to 25 years. 16 Section 20 of the Equality Act 2010. 17 Section 66 of the Children and Families Act 2014 applies to certain settings, including mainstream schools, maintained nursery schools, academies, alternative provision academies and pupil referral units. 18 Section 29 and Section 42 of the Children and Families Act 2014. -- 14 of 34 -- 15 Responding to behaviour Maintaining a positive culture requires constant work and schools should positively reinforce the behaviour which reflects the values of the school and prepares pupils to engage in their learning. Sometimes a pupil’s behaviour will be unacceptable, and pupils need to understand that there are consequences for their behaviour. Often this will involve the use of reasonable and proportionate sanctions. Responding to good behaviour Acknowledging good behaviour encourages repetition and communicates the school community’s expectations and values to all pupils. Using positive recognition and rewards provides an opportunity for all staff to reinforce the school’s culture and ethos. Positive reinforcements and rewards should be applied clearly and fairly to reinforce the routines, expectations, and norms of the school’s behaviour culture. Examples of rewards may include: • verbal praise; • communicating praise to parents via phone call or written correspondence; • certificates, prize ceremonies or special assemblies; • positions of responsibility, such as prefect status or being entrusted with a particular decision or project; and • whole-class or year group rewards, such as a popular activity. Responding to misbehaviour When a member of school staff becomes aware of misbehaviour, they should respond predictably, promptly, and assertively in accordance with the school behaviour policy. The first priority should be to ensure the safety of pupils and staff and to restore a calm environment. It is important that staff across a school respond in a consistent, fair, and proportionate manner so pupils know with certainty that misbehaviour will always be addressed. De-escalation techniques can be used to help prevent further behaviour issues arising and recurring and schools may use pre-agreed scripts and phrases to help restore calm. The aims of any response to misbehaviour should be to maintain the culture of the school, restore a calm and safe environment in which all pupils can learn and thrive, and prevent the recurrence of misbehaviour. To achieve these aims, a response to behaviour may have various purposes. These include: -- 15 of 34 -- 16 a) deterrence: sanctions can often be effective deterrents for a specific pupil or a general deterrent for all pupils at the school. b) protection: keeping pupils safe is a legal duty of all staff. A protective measure in response to inappropriate behaviour, for example, removing a pupil from a lesson, may be immediate or after assessment of risk. c) improvement: to support pupils to understand and meet the behaviour expectations of the school and reengage in meaningful education. Pupils will test boundaries, may find their emotions difficult to manage, or may have misinterpreted the rules. Pupils should be supported to understand and follow the rules. This may be via sanctions, reflective conversations or targeted pastoral support. Where appropriate, staff should take account of any contributing factors that are identified after a behaviour incident has occurred: for example, if the pupil has suffered bereavement, experienced abuse or neglect, has mental health needs,19 has been subject to bullying, has needs including SEND (including any not previously identified), has been subject to criminal exploitation, or is experiencing significant challenges at home. Acceptable forms of sanction The behaviour policy should include a range of possible sanctions clearly communicated to and understood by pupils, staff, and parents. Examples of sanctions may include: • a verbal reprimand and reminder of the expectations of behaviour; • the setting of written tasks such as an account of their behaviour; • loss of privileges – for instance, the loss of a prized responsibility; • detention (see ‘Detentions’); • school based community service, such as tidying a classroom; • regular reporting including early morning reporting; scheduled uniform checks; or being placed “on report” for behaviour monitoring; • suspension; and 19 See the Mental health and behaviour in schools guidance. -- 16 of 34 -- 17 • in the most serious of circumstances, permanent exclusion.20 Taking disciplinary action and providing appropriate support are not mutually exclusive actions. They can and should occur at the same time if necessary. The school should be clear about its approach and in which category any action falls, ensuring that the action complies with the law relating to each category. Schools should consider whether the misbehaviour gives cause to suspect that a pupil is suffering, or is likely to suffer, harm. Where this may be the case as set out in Part 1 of Keeping children safe in education, school staff should follow the school’s child protection policy and speak to the designated safeguarding lead (or deputy). They will consider if pastoral support, an early help intervention or a referral to children’s social care is appropriate. Alternative arrangements for sanctions can be considered on a case-by-case basis for any pupil where the school believes an alternative arrangement would be more effective for that particular pupil, based on their knowledge of that pupil’s personal circumstances. The school should have regard to the impact on consistency and perceived fairness overall when considering any alternative arrangements. If a pupil in these circumstances has SEND that has affected their behaviour, the school will need to consider what the law requires (see ‘Responding to the behaviour of pupils with SEND’). What the law allows Teachers can sanction pupils whose conduct falls below the standard which could reasonably be expected of them. This means that if a pupil misbehaves, breaks a rule or fails to follow a reasonable instruction, the teacher can apply a sanction on that pupil.21 Staff can issue sanctions any time pupils are in school or elsewhere under the charge of a member of staff, including on school visits. This also applies in certain circumstances when a pupil’s misbehaviour occurs outside of school (see ‘Behaviour outside of school premises’). A sanction will be lawful if it satisfies the following three conditions: 20 Headteachers at all maintained schools (including special schools), pupil referral units, academy schools and alternative provision academies in England must have regard to the Suspension and permanent exclusion guidance when considering either of these sanctions. 21 Section 91(3) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. -- 17 of 34 -- 18 a) The decision to sanction a pupil is made by a paid member of school staff (but not one who the headteacher has decided should not do so) or an unpaid member of staff authorised by the headteacher; b) The decision to sanction the pupil and the sanction itself are made on the school premises or while the pupil is under the lawful charge of the member of staff; and c) It does not breach any other legislation (for example in respect of equality, special educational needs and human rights) and it is reasonable in all the circumstances.22 In considering whether a sanction is reasonable in all circumstances, one must consider whether it is proportionate in the circumstances of the case and consider any special circumstances relevant to its imposition including the pupil’s age, any special educational needs or disability they may have, and any religious requirements affecting them.23 The headteacher may limit the power to apply particular sanctions, or to sanction particular pupils or types of pupils, to certain staff and/or extend the power to discipline to adult volunteers, for example to parents who have volunteered to help on a school trip. Corporal punishment by school staff is illegal in all circumstances. Responding to the behaviour of pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND) Schools should consistently and fairly promote high standards of behaviour for all pupils and provide additional support where needed to ensure pupils can achieve and learn as well as possible. A school should not assume that because a pupil has SEND, it must have affected their behaviour on a particular occasion – this is a question of judgement for the school on the facts of the situation. Schools should consider whether a pupil’s SEND has contributed to the misbehaviour and if so, whether it is appropriate and lawful to sanction the pupil. In considering this, schools should refer to the Equality Act 2010 and schools guidance. The school should also consider whether any reasonable adjustments need to be made to the sanction in response to any disability the pupil may have. It is also important for the 22 Section 91 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. 23 Section 91(6)(b) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006. -- 18 of 34 -- 19 schools to seek to try and understand the underlying causes of behaviour and whether additional support is needed. In 2018 an Upper Tribunal judgment found that if a child in education has a recognised condition that is more likely to result in a tendency to physical abuse, that can be a disability. 24 As is explained above, this does not necessarily mean that a disabled child will be exempt from sanction. Supporting pupils following a sanction Following a sanction, strategies should be considered to help all pupils to understand how to improve their behaviour and meet the behaviour expectations of the school. These might include: • a targeted discussion with the pupil, including explaining what they did wrong, the impact of their actions, how they can do better in the future and what will happen if their behaviour fails to improve. This may also include advising them to apologise to the relevant person, if appropriate; • a phone call with parents, and the Virtual School Head for looked after children; • inquiries into the pupil’s conduct with staff involved in teaching, supporting or supervising the pupil in school; • inquiries into circumstances outside of school, including at home, conducted by the designated safeguarding lead or a deputy; or • considering whether the support for behaviour management being provided remains appropriate (see ‘Initial intervention following behavioural incidents’). Designated staff should be appropriately trained to deliver these interventions. These interventions are often part of a wider approach that involves the wellbeing and mental health of the pupil. 24 [2019] AACR 10 (C & C v The Governing Body of a School, The Secretary of State for Education (First Interested Party) and The National Autistic Society (Second Interested Party) (SEN) [2018] UKUT 269(AAC)). -- 19 of 34 -- 20 Detentions A detention is a commonly used sanction, often used as a deterrent to future misbehaviour. It is typically a short period where the pupil is required to remain under supervision of school staff when their peers have been allowed to go home or to break. When used, it should be done so consistently and fairly by staff. This process should be well known to all pupils and staff. What the law allows Teachers have authority to issue detention to pupils, including same-day detentions. A school’s behaviour policy should make clear that detention (including detention outside of school hours) can be used as a possible sanction. A detention outside normal school hours will be lawful if it meets the following conditions: • the conditions outlined in ‘Matters schools should consider when imposing detentions’; • the pupil is under 18 (unless the detention is during lunch break); • the headteacher has communicated to pupils and parents that detentions outside school sessions may be used; and • the detention is held at any of the following times: a) any school day where the pupil does not have permission to be absent; b) weekends during term - except a weekend during, preceding or following the half term break; or c) non-teaching days – usually referred to as ‘training days’, ‘INSET days’ or ‘non-contact days’, except if it falls on a public holiday, on a day which precedes the first day of term, during the half-term break, or after the last school day of the term.25 The headteacher can decide which members of staff can issue detentions. For example, a headteacher could limit the power to heads of year or heads of department only, or they could decide that all members of staff, including support staff, can impose 25 Education (Excluded Days of Detention) (England) Regulations 2007. -- 20 of 34 -- 21 detentions. This should be laid out clearly in the behaviour policy and communicated clearly to all pupils, parents, and staff. Matters schools should consider when imposing detentions Parental consent is not required for detentions that satisfy the conditions mentioned in ‘What the law allows’. With lunchtime detentions, staff should allow reasonable time for the pupil to eat, drink and use the toilet. School staff should not issue a detention where there is any reasonable concern that doing so would compromise a pupil's safety. When ensuring that a detention outside school hours is reasonable, staff issuing the detention should consider the following points: • whether the detention is likely to put the pupil at increased risk; • whether the pupil has known caring responsibilities; • whether the detention timing conflicts with a medical appointment; • whether parents ought to be informed of the detention. In many cases it will be necessary to do so, but this will depend on the circumstances. For instance, notice may not be necessary for a short after-school detention where the pupil can get home safely; and • whether suitable travel arrangements can reasonably be made by the parent for the pupil. It does not matter if making these arrangements is inconvenient for the parent. The use of reasonable force Detailed advice is available in Use of Reasonable Force – advice for school leaders, staff and governing bodies. Headteachers and all school staff should read this guidance. There are circumstances when it is appropriate for staff in schools to use reasonable force to safeguard children. The term ‘reasonable force’ covers the broad range of actions used by staff that involve a degree of physical contact to control or restrain children. ‘Reasonable’ in these circumstances means ‘using no more force than is needed’. -- 21 of 34 -- 22 Members of staff have the power to use reasonable force to prevent pupils committing an offence, injuring themselves or others, or damaging property and to maintain good order and discipline at the school or among pupils.26 Headteachers and authorised school staff may also use such force as is reasonable given the circumstances when conducting a search for knives or weapons, alcohol, illegal drugs, stolen items, tobacco, fireworks, pornographic images or articles that they reasonably suspect have been or are likely to be used to commit an offence or cause harm. Force may not be used to search for other items banned under the school rules.27 When considering using reasonable force staff should, in considering the risks, carefully recognise any specific vulnerabilities of the pupil, including SEND, mental health needs or medical conditions. Searching, screening and confiscation Detailed guidance for schools can be found in Searching, screening and confiscation at school. Headteachers and school staff should read this guidance. School staff can confiscate, retain or dispose of a pupil’s property as a disciplinary penalty in the same circumstances as other disciplinary penalties. The law protects staff from liability in any proceedings brought against them for any loss or damage to items they have confiscated, provided they acted lawfully. Staff should consider whether the confiscation is proportionate and consider any special circumstances relevant to the case.28 Removal from classrooms Removal is where a pupil, for serious disciplinary reasons, is required to spend a limited time out of the classroom at the instruction of a member of staff. This is to be differentiated from circumstances in which a pupil is asked to step outside of the classroom briefly for a conversation with a staff member and asked to return following this. The use of removal should allow for continuation of the pupil’s education in a supervised setting. The continuous education provided may differ to the mainstream curriculum but should still be meaningful for the pupil. Removal from the classroom should be considered a serious sanction. It should only be used when necessary and once other behavioural strategies in the classroom have been 26 Section 93 of Education and Inspections Act 2006. 27 Section 550ZB of the Education Act 1996. 28 Section 94 of Education and Inspections Act 2006. -- 22 of 34 -- 23 attempted, unless the behaviour is so extreme as to warrant immediate removal. Parents should be informed on the same day if their child has been removed from the classroom. As with all disciplinary measures, schools must consider whether the sanction is proportionate and consider whether there are any special considerations relevant to its imposition (see ‘What the law allows’ and ‘Responding to the behaviour of pupils with Special Educational Needs and/or Disability (SEND)’). Removal should be used for the following reasons: a) to maintain the safety of all pupils and to restore stability following an unreasonably high level of disruption; b) to enable disruptive pupils to be taken to a place where education can be continued in a managed environment; and c) to allow the pupil to regain calm in a safe space. Removal should be distinguished from the use of separation spaces (sometimes known as sensory or nurture rooms) for non-disciplinary reasons. For instance, where a pupil is taken out of the classroom to regulate his or her emotions because of identified sensory overload as part of a planned response. Governance of removal Headteachers should: a) make clear in the school behaviour policy that removal may be used as a response to serious misbehaviour; b) maintain overall strategic oversight of the school’s arrangements for any removals, as set out in the school’s behaviour policy; c) make sure the reasons that may lead to pupils being removed are transparent and known to all staff and pupils; d) outline in the behaviour policy the principles governing the length of time that it is appropriate for a pupil to be in removal; e) ensure that the removal location is in an appropriate area of the school and stocked with appropriate resources, is a suitable place to learn and refocus, and is supervised by trained members of staff; and f) design a clear process for the reintegration of any pupil in removal into the classroom when appropriate and safe to do so. Schools should collect, monitor and analyse removal data internally in order to interrogate repeat patterns and the effectiveness of the use of removal. Schools should -- 23 of 34 -- 24 make data-based decisions to consider whether frequently removed pupils may benefit from additional and alternative approaches (see ‘Initial intervention’), a pastoral review or investigation by the Special Educational Needs Co-ordinator (SENCo), or whether specific departments or teachers may require more support. Separately, schools should analyse the collected data to identify patterns relating to pupils sharing any of the protected characteristics and the removal policy is not having a disproportionate effect on pupils sharing particular protected characteristics (see ‘Monitoring and evaluating school behaviour’).29 When dealing with individual removal cases, headteachers and teachers should: a) consider whether any assessment of underlying factors of disruptive behaviour is needed; b) facilitate reflection by the pupil on the behaviour that led to their removal from the classroom and what they can do to improve and avoid such behaviour in the future; c) ensure that pupils are never locked in the room of their removal. There may be exceptional situations in which it is necessary to physically prevent a pupil from leaving a room in order to protect the safety of pupils and staff from immediate risk, but this would be a safety measure and not a disciplinary sanction and therefore is not covered by this section; d) ensure that the Children and Families Act 2014, the Equality Act 2010 and regulations under those Acts are being complied with;30 and e) if a pupil has a social worker, including if they have a Child in Need plan, a Child Protection plan or are looked-after, notify their social worker. If the pupil is looked-after, ensure their Personal Education Plan is appropriately reviewed and amended and notify their Virtual School Head. Pupils should not be removed from classrooms for prolonged periods of time without the explicit agreement of the headteacher. These pupils should be given extensive support to continue their education including targeted pastoral support aimed to improve behaviour so they can be reintegrated and succeed within the mainstream school community. 29 See Equality Act 2010 and schools. 30 See Equality Act 2010 and schools. -- 24 of 34 -- 25 Staff supervising areas used for removal should be suitably trained in both the school behaviour policy and the interpersonal skills necessary to manage pupils with a variety of challenging behaviours and contexts. Suspension and permanent exclusion All pupils are entitled to an education where they are protected from disruption and can learn in a calm, safe and supportive environment. Headteachers can use suspension and permanent exclusion in response to serious incidents or in response to persistent poor behaviour which has not impr…

Linked PDF text excerpt (https://cityacademybristol.clf.uk/wp-content/uploads/Behaviour-Policy-and-Statement-of-Behaviour-Principles-.pdf): Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles. Date Adopted: Date, Cabot Learning Federation Implementation Date: 1st April 2019 -- 1 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 2 History of most recent Policy changes Date Page Change Origin of Change e.g. TU request, Change in legislation Date E.g. Whole Document Detail of change Reason for change -- 2 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 3 Contents 1. Aims..................................................................................................................................................... 4 2. Legislation and Statutory Requirements ............................................................................................ 4 3. The City Academy Introduction and Vision......................................................................................... 3 4. Definitions ........................................................................................................................................... 4 5. Bullying ................................................................................................................................................ 5 6. Roles and Responsibilities ................................................................................................................... 6 7. Student Code of Conduct .................................................................................................................... 6 8. Rewards and Sanctions ....................................................................................................................... 7 9. Behaviour Management ..................................................................................................................... 8 10. Uniform ........................................................................................................................................... 13 11. Equipment ....................................................................................................................................... 14 12. Student Transition........................................................................................................................... 14 13. Training……………………………………………………………………………………………………….....14 14. Monitoring……………………………………………………………………………………………………….14 15. Links with other policies………………………………………………………………………………………. 14 Appendix 1: Statement of behaviour principles………………………………………………………………… 16 Appendix 2: Incident Form…………………………………………………………………………………………17 Appendix 3: Rewards at City Academy………………………………………………….See separate document Appendix 4: City Standards……………………………………………………………… See separate document -- 3 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 4 1. Policy aims This policy aims to: • Provide a consistent approach to behaviour management • Define what we consider to be unacceptable behaviour, including bullying • Outline how students are expected to behave • Summarise the roles and responsibilities of different people in the school community with regards to behaviour management • Outline our system of rewards and sanctions 2. Legislation and statutory requirements This policy is based on advice from the Department for Education (DfE) on: • Behaviour and discipline in schools • Searching, screening and confiscation at school • The Equality Act 2010 • Use of reasonable force in schools • Supporting students with medical conditions at school • Keeping Children Safe in Education and other safeguarding guidance It is also based on the Special Educational Needs and Disability (SEND) Code of Practice. In addition, this policy is based on: • Section 175 of the Education Act 2002, which outlines a school’s duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of its students • Sections 88-94 of the Education and Inspections Act 2006, which require schools to regulate students’ behaviour and publish a behaviour policy and written statement of behaviour principles, and give schools the authority to confiscate students’ property • Schedule 1 of the Education (Independent School Standards) Regulations 2014; paragraph 7 outlines a school’s duty to safeguard and promote the welfare of children, paragraph 9 requires the school to have a written behaviour policy and paragraph 10 requires the school to have an anti-bullying strategy • DfE guidance explaining that academies should publish their behaviour policy and anti-bullying strategy online. This policy complies with our funding agreement and articles of association. 3. City Academy Bristol Introduction and Vision City Academy is a mixed gender secondary academy situated in East Central Bristol. It serves an area of high deprivation and take students mainly from the local community (Lawrence Hill, Barton Hill, Easton, St Pauls, St George and Whitehall). The student profile is multi-cultural, multi-ethnic and multi-faith, with over 46 different languages spoken and approximately 47% of students speaking English as an additional language. We also want our students to understand their role in developing a common purpose across our Academy community and beyond. ‘City Standards” provides a framework to ensure our core values -- 4 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 5 (Grit, Pride and Team Spirit) are embedded within our daily practice and routines “so that every child has the choice to go to university, choose their career and improve the world.” Here at City Academy we fully believe that verbal and meaningful praise can be very powerful in developing a happy and purposeful school environment. It is this focus on positive relationships that drives the positive environment of the academy. What do we want at City Academy? • To have the highest expectations of student behaviour in order to maximise their opportunity to achieve. • To ensure all students develop the good learning habits that they need to be successful in school and life. • To realise and celebrate the potential of all students through promoting success of our students both inside and outside of the Academy. • To create an environment in which students are enabled to have the right to go to university, choose their career and improve the world • To form an active partnership with families to encourage excellent behaviour and to establish improved patterns of behaviour where there are difficulties. • To ensure that all students feel safe These aims are supported by regular and appropriate in-service training; close parental and community links; student organisation which takes account of ethnic and gender balance; the boosting of students’ self-esteem through positive reinforcement and extra-curricular activities; and Academy social events aimed at pulling together the different life experiences of groups within the community. 4. Definitions Misbehaviour is defined as: • Disruption in lessons, in corridors between lessons, and at break and lunchtimes • Non-completion of classwork or homework • Poor attitude • Incorrect uniform Serious misbehaviour is defined as: • Repeated breaches of the school rules • Any form of bullying or harassment • Sexual harassment, which is any unwanted sexual behaviour that causes humiliation, pain, fear or intimidation including sexual assault • Racist, sexist, homophobic or discriminatory behaviour • Vandalism • Theft • Fighting • Smoking • Possession of any prohibited items. These are: • Knives or weapons • Alcohol -- 5 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 6 • Illegal drugs • Stolen items • Tobacco and cigarette papers • Fireworks • Pornographic images • Any article a staff member reasonably suspects has been, or is likely to be, used to commit an offence, or to cause personal injury to, or damage to the property of, any person (including the student) • Any item banned by the Academy which has been identified in the rules as an item which may be searched for. 5. Bullying and harassment The academy has a comprehensive Tackling Bullying and Harassment Policy which should be read in conjunction with this policy. Bullying is defined as the repetitive, intentional harming of one person or group by another person or group, where the relationship involves an imbalance of power. Bullying is, therefore: • Deliberately hurtful • Repeated, often over a period of time • Difficult to defend against Bullying can include: Type of bullying Definition Emotional Being unfriendly, excluding, tormenting Physical Hitting, kicking, pushing, taking another’s belongings, any use of violence Racial Racial taunts, graffiti, gestures Grounds of faith or religion When a religious or religiously unaffiliated person chooses to intentionally or unintentionally degrade another person emotionally, mentally, or physically based on: - the bullied individual’s actual or perceived religious or religiously unaffiliated identity, or - the doctrines or practices of their belief. Direct or indirect verbal Name-calling, sarcasm, spreading rumours, teasing Cyber-bullying Bullying that takes place online, such as through social networking sites, messaging apps or gaming sites Homophobic/transphobic Bullying motivated by prejudice against lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans or non-binary (LGBT) people -- 6 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 7 Harassment is defined by the Equality Act and is unwanted behaviour which someone finds offensive or which makes them feel intimidated or humiliated. It can happen on its own or alongside other forms of discrimination. Harassment can be illegal and will also be reported and addressed through the Tackling Bullying and Harassment Policy and Procedures. 6. Roles and responsibilities 6.1 The Academy Council The Academy Council is responsible for reviewing and approving the written statement of behaviour principles (see Appendix 1). The Academy Council will also review this behaviour policy at least every three years in conjunction with the Principal and will monitor the policy’s effectiveness, holding the Principal to account for its implementation. 6.2 The Principal The Principal is responsible for reviewing and recommending this behaviour policy. The Principal will ensure that the school environment encourages positive behaviour and that staff deal effectively with poor behaviour, and will monitor how staff implement this policy to ensure rewards and sanctions are applied consistently. 6.3 Staff Staff are responsible for: • Implementing the behaviour policy consistently • Modelling positive behaviour • Providing a personalised approach to the specific behavioural needs of particular students • Recording behaviour incidents using SIMS (School Information Management System), incident forms (see Appendix 2 for an incident form) and CPOMS as appropriate. The Senior Leadership Team (SLT) will support staff in responding to behaviour incidents. 6.4 Parents/Carers Parents are expected to: • Support their child in adhering to the student code of conduct • Inform the academy of any changes in circumstances that may affect their child’s behaviour • Discuss any behavioural concerns with academy staff promptly • Report and concerns relating to bullying and harassment. 7. Student code of conduct Students are expected to: -- 7 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 8 • Behave in an orderly and self-controlled way • Show respect to members of staff and each other • In class, make it possible for all students to learn • Move quietly around the school • Treat the school buildings and school property with respect • Wear the correct uniform at all times • Accept sanctions when given • Refrain from behaving in a way that brings the school into disrepute, including when outside school 8. Rewards and sanctions 8.1 List of rewards and sanctions Rewards We want all students to be motivated by the intrinsic value of achievement, we are committed to acknowledging students for developing good learning habits and demonstrating City Standards inside and outside of the Academy. All members of staff use descriptive praise to signal to students that they are demonstrating good learning habits throughout their time at the Academy, this is then supported through parental contact in order to reinforce recognition. Throughout each term students are regularly rewarded for exhibiting the Academy core values of Grit, Pride and Team Spirit. These are celebrated among staff and students on a regular basis, (see Appendix 3 for full break down of rewards). Positive behaviour will be rewarded with: • Praise • Achievement points • Subject Recognition • Celebration Assemblies • Letters or phone calls home to parents • Special responsibilities/privileges Sanctions Teachers have statutory authority to discipline students whose behaviour is unacceptable, who break the academy rules or who fail to comply with reasonable instructions. Consequences should be used to help students make appropriate choices about their behaviour and attendance. Where they choose to breach expectations of behaviour, students have a right to expect fair sanctions, applied consistently. The most appropriate sanction is one designed to put matters right and to encourage better behaviour and attendance in future. It is not appropriate, therefore, to punish whole groups for the misdemeanours of a few, or to impose a sanction that may humiliate students. Statistical information will be used to inform our planning about behaviour improvement, for example, to plan future groupings and to target support to areas where students have the greatest difficulty. -- 8 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 9 All sanctions and rewards (positive and negative event logs) are recorded onto SIMS and monitored by the students LF (Learning Facilitator), PSW (Pastoral Support Worker), PL (Pastoral Leader), Head of Faculty (HoF) and SLT (Senior Leadership Team) to enable appropriate support strategies to be implemented. Students who are a member of the Personalised Learning Centre (PLC) will also be monitored by this team, often in place of the Year Team. City Standards is used in all classrooms to reinforce positive behaviour. Staff, and students, when appropriate, will be consulted when rewards and sanctions are being decided. The school may use one or more of the following sanctions in response to unacceptable behaviour: • A verbal reprimand • Sending the student out of the class to ‘The Link’ for failure to follow ‘City Standards’, (see Appendix 4 for full break down of City Standards). • If a student refuses to follow a member of staff’s instructions, a duty call will be made where a member of staff will arrive to support with the situation • Expecting work to be completed at home, or at break or lunchtime • Detention at break or lunchtime, or after school • Letters or phone calls home to parents/carers • Agreeing a behaviour contract • Putting a student ‘on report’ to their LF, PSW, PL or a member of SLT. We may use the Link in response to serious or persistent breaches of this policy. Students may be sent to the Link during lessons if they are disruptive, and they will be expected to complete work that is set in the Link. The Link is managed by SLT and Pastoral Leaders. See 9.5 for more information regarding the Link. 8.2 Academy Based Community Service At times it may be appropriate for students to be given a sanction of Academy Based Community Service for various reasons including; littering, damaging academy property and equipment. This may take the form of activities including; picking up litter, removing graffiti, tidying up the Venue after a social period, tidying up a classroom, assisting in general chores. This list is not exhaustive. At all times students will remain safe and will be given any equipment needed to ensure their safety. These sanctions are most likely to be used following an incident that befits it, for instance students who deliberately drop litter and make the Academy an untidy place can be expected to assist in cleaning up the Academy. 8.3 Off-site behaviour Sanctions may be applied where a student has misbehaved off-site when representing the academy, such as on a school trip or on the bus on the way to or from the academy. Academies have a statutory power to discipline for misbehaving outside of the academy premises. Section 89(5) of the Education and Inspections Act 2006 gives Principals a specific statutory power to regulate students’ behaviour in these circumstances “to such extent as is reasonable”. We expect students to be take pride and be a good ambassador for City Academy. Behaviours will include any that do not meet our expectations when the student is: • Taking part in any academy organised or academy related event -- 9 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 10 • Travelling to and from the academy • Wearing the academy uniform • In some other way identifiable as a student at City Academy Or behaviour at any time, whether or not the conditions above apply, that: • Could have repercussions for the orderly running of the academy • Poses a threat to another student or a member of the public • Could adversely affect the reputation of the academy. 8.4 Malicious allegations Where a student makes an accusation against a member of staff and that accusation is shown to have been malicious, the Principal will discipline the student in accordance with this policy. Please refer to our safeguarding policy/statement of procedures for dealing with allegations of abuse against staff for more information on responding to allegations of abuse. The Principal will also consider the pastoral needs of staff accused of misconduct. 9. Behaviour management Behaviour management at The City Academy is set through ‘City Standards’. 9.1 Classroom management Teaching and support staff are responsible for setting the tone and context for positive behaviour within the classroom. They will: • Create and maintain a stimulating environment that encourages students to be engaged • Display the student code of conduct or their own classroom rules • Develop a positive relationship with students, which may include: ▪ Greeting students in the morning/at the start of lessons ▪ Establishing clear routines ▪ Communicating expectations of behaviour in ways other than verbally ▪ Highlighting and promoting good behaviour ▪ Concluding the day positively and starting the next day afresh ▪ Having a plan for dealing with low-level disruption ▪ Using positive reinforcement 9.2 Lesson Scoring All members of staff will use registers to monitor students’ behaviour. Using City Standards a warning will be given for behaviour and work produced that is not in line with City Standards expectations. Lessons will be scored as: Score Description Outcome 4 Working to a high level with excellent focus on learning Positive event log and/or praise. -- 10 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 11 3 Working in line with City Standards Verbal praise 2 Failure to follow City Standards Warning given and name written on board 1 Continuous failure to follow City Standards or red card given Asked to leave the lesson and complete 2 lessons and a social time in ‘The Link’. Time in ‘The Link’ can be extended depending on the level of behaviour. Restorative conversation between the student and the teacher before their next lesson together (see restore section below). 9.3 Restore A restorative conversation is vital to re-building the relationship between the student and the adult. For minor issues this can be a brief conversation at the classroom door or in the corridor. For more serious issues these can be facilitated and support by Pastoral staff or SLT. 9.4 Behaviour in Learning Family (LF) During afternoon LF the students have a year group timetable to follow which includes assembly, Drop Everything And Read (DEAR), current affairs, student achievement and a community project. 9.5 The Link Students who fail to comply with the Academy rules may end up in The Link. As the name suggests this is a room that links behaviour with returning to lessons. Students who are placed in The Link may be there due to a number of reasons including, failure to follow City Standards, or a result of a serious incident. At the City Academy we ensure we provide the tools for all students to succeed, from time to time students may need to refocus on this and this is where The Link can support this. Students will work in silence in The Link. Each student will be provided with text books and worksheets to work independently covering a range of subjects. Students will spend three lessons and social time in The Link, unless the reasons for being placed in The Link are for a serious incident/ongoing behavioural problems, then time in The Link can be extended. Students will have their lunch brought to them and eat in silence. Students will be entitled to two toilet breaks throughout the day. Failure to follow the rules within The Link may result in a fixed term exclusion. Parent/carers will be contacted by phone with a follow up letter. A return to school meeting will then take place the next day and the student will again be placed in the link until they can complete the expected time. 9.6 Graduated Response All students will have their own graduated response document which records types of interventions that students have been offered to support them to improve their behaviour and learning at The City -- 11 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 12 Academy Bristol. The interventions can range from daily check ins with a student’s LF to working with an outside agency. Action Who is responsible? When? What is done? Learning Facilitator monitoring LF Weekly LF review sessions Show lesson scoring to individuals/LF group. Praise those with 5s/4s. Stage 1 card (LF) LF Start of the week of after PSS or a review Students with multiple 1s/2s put on to a stage 1 card Pastoral Support Worker monitoring PSW After two-week Stage 1 review Mentor students, put on card and review lesson hot spots Pastoral Leader monitoring PL After two-week PSW review Mentor students, put on card, meet with parents/cares and lesson hot spots Head of Faculty monitoring H of F Students with 1s/2s in one subject/lesson Curriculum detention Curriculum monitoring Contact home Certificates and curriculum rewards SLT monitoring SLT Following a PL or H of F review Behaviour review meeting with SLT 9.7 Serious Incident Protocol When a serious incident has occurred at the Academy, a full investigation will be undertaken. This will involve taking statements from students and staff where needed. Parents/carers will always be informed when we are dealing with a serious incident. At times, we may need to separate a student during an investigation. When we have completed our investigation, parents will be asked to attend the Academy to discuss the incident and possible ways of resolving the situation. Please be aware that sometimes an investigation may take a few days to fully understand. This means the students involved may still be in lessons learning while this happens, this is due to ensuring that a student does not miss out on learning when potentially this is not needed. The following steps may be taken: • Warnings • Detention • Exclusion (Fixed Term and Permanent) Exclusion, which only the Principal or, if unavailable, the Vice-Principal, can decide on, will only be taken: • In response to serious breaches of the academy’s Behaviour Policy; or • In response to persistent breaches of the academy’s Behaviour Policy; or -- 12 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 13 • Where allowing the student to remain in school would seriously harm the education or welfare of the student or others in the academy. Students may be excluded for a fixed number of days or excluded from the academy permanently. The academy makes every effort to investigate serious matters which may lead to exclusion; considering at all stages our statutory duties in relation to SEND, functions under the Equality Act 2010 and our duty not to discriminate against students on the basis of protected characteristics, such as disability or race. This involves direct discussion with students who were involved in incidents either as witnesses, bystanders or victims. All students at risk of exclusion will be required to write a written statement; this provides a clear opportunity to write a truthful account of events which will then be discussed with them with a member of the Pastoral or Leadership Team prior to a decision about exclusion being made. Any decision to exclude a student from the academy will be made in line with the principles of administrative law i.e. that it is a lawful, rational, reasonable, fair and proportionate response. When establishing the facts in relation to an exclusion decision the Principal or Vice-Principal will apply the civil standard of proof; i.e. “on the balance of probabilities” it is more likely than not that a fact is true, rather than the criminal standard of “beyond reasonable doubt”. Whilst exclusion may still be an appropriate sanction, the Principal or Vice-Principal will consider factors that are identified after an incident of poor behaviour has occurred. For example, where it comes to light that a student has suffered bereavement, has mental health issues or has been subject to bullying. Parents/carers will always be aware of the reasons for these sanctions and there are legal guidelines which will be followed (these include the right of appeal). Return from a period of exclusion will always involve a re-integration meeting with parents/carers, the student and a senior member of staff. Where required, a student and parent may be asked to sign a written behaviour contract as part of the reintegration process. a) The academy will, without delay, inform the student’s parent/carer of the period of any exclusion and the reasons for it. b) The academy will also, without delay, provide parents/carers with the following information in writing: • The reasons for the exclusion • The period of a fixed period exclusion or, for a permanent exclusion, the fact that it is permanent • Parents/carers right to make representation about the exclusion to the Academy Council • Advise the parent/carer how their representation may be made; and • Where there is a legal requirement for the Academy Council to consider the exclusion, that parents have a right to attend a meeting, be represented at this meeting (at their own expense) and to bring a friend Fixed Term Exclusion Reduction Plan (FTERP) Decisions to exclude students for a fixed period of time are never taken lightly. If an incident occurs that would warrant a fixed term exclusion of multiple days the student and parents may be offered the chance to take part in our fixed term exclusion reduction programme. Instead of being fixed term excluded for a period of multiple days the student may be excluded for one day and then spend some subsequent days at a partner academy (like a mini-immersion). We find that this -- 13 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 14 benefits all parties. Students spend less time out of a provision. Parents spend less time having to be responsible for the student whilst they are at home on exclusion. The originating academy has time to consider further support that the student may require following the exclusion. Immersion to another school If concerns arise regarding a student’s conduct, either relating to a single larger incident or a series of persistent disruptions, the Academy may suggest to parents and the student that the students spends a short period of time attending a local partner school. This period of time is intended to allow the student the opportunity, away from their regular peers and potential distractions, to take some time to reset any pattern of behaviour and reflect on any incidents. During the immersion period the student will likely spend a short period in the equivalent of the internal Link room or personalised learning centre of the receiving academy and then, if this is successful, will spend some time following a regular timetable of lessons. Every endeavour is made to match similar subjects to the student’s normal timetable, though this is not always possible. Although we appreciate this may feel like some loss of learning time the intention is to ensure longer term success when the student returns to City Academy. Most immersions run for two weeks, though some may be longer at the request and agreement of interested parties. Immersions are most successful with parental support and the overall rationale is around giving the student the best chance to reset and refocus their behaviours. Negotiated transfer to another school A negotiated transfer (NT) is where a student moves to another Academy for a trial period of time. The trial period is normally 12 weeks duration. If the student engages well in the new academy and all parties are satisfied then at the end of the trial period the student will move permanently to the new academy and stop being a student at the old academy. The old academy may then offer the vacant space to a new student. The new academy will become solely responsible for the welfare of the student. If at any point during the trial period the student’s behaviour or engagement at the new academy is not satisfactory then the NT will end and the student will return to their old academy. There is no right to appeal the decision to end the NT as it is not treated as an exclusion as the student is able to return to their old academy. NTs often follow successful immersion periods where the student and parents realise that a fresh start may be best for the student. NTs are often offered to students and parents where the students conduct places them at risk of exclusion (fixed term or permanent) as a way of avoiding these situations. Transfer to Engage ‘Engage’ is an off-site provision hosted next to the City Academy. It is funded and accessed solely by academies belonging to the Cabot Learning Federation. The off-site provision provides a revolving door provision for students who are currently not engaging in their home academy. Trained staff work with students in small groups or 1-1 to reengage students in education, with the view to the student returning successfully to their original academy or potentially then being in a position to be successful on an NT (see above). As a provision which is an extension of City Academy we do not need parental support to place a student at Engage but we would always endeavour to work with parents and the student to re-engage them in education. Referral to Bristol Inclusion Panel This will be discussed with families on an individual basis. -- 14 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 15 9.8 Physical restraint In some circumstances, staff may use reasonable force to restrain a student to prevent them: • Causing disorder • Hurting themselves or others • Damaging property Incidents of physical restraint must: • Always be used as a last resort • Be applied using the minimum amount of force and for the minimum amount of time possible • Be used in a way that maintains the safety and dignity of all concerned • Never be used as a form of punishment • Be recorded in the number and bound book 9.9 Confiscation Any prohibited items (listed in section 3) found in students’ possession will be confiscated. These items will not be returned to students. We will also confiscate any item which is harmful or detrimental to school discipline. These items will be returned to students after discussion with senior leaders and parents, if appropriate. Searching and screening students is conducted in line with the DfE’s latest guidance on searching, screening and confiscation. 9.10 Searching students Academy staff can search students with their consent for any item which is banned by the academy rules. These items include: • Cigarette lighters • Chewing gum • Mobile phones The Principal and staff authorised by the Principal have the power to search students or their possessions, without consent, where they suspect the student has a prohibited item. If a search takes place, to comply with Safeguarding measures two members of staff will be present during the search. 9.11 Student support The school recognises its legal duty under the Equality Act 2010 to prevent students with a protected characteristic from being at a disadvantage. Consequently, our approach to challenging behaviour may be differentiated to cater to the needs of the student. -- 15 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 16 The school’s Special Educational Needs Co-ordinator (SENCO) will evaluate a student who exhibits challenging behaviour to determine whether they have any underlying needs that are not currently being met. Where necessary, support and advice will also be sought from specialist teachers, an educational psychologist, medical practitioners and/or others, to identify or support specific needs. When acute needs are identified in a student, we will liaise with external agencies and plan support programmes for that child. We will work with parents/carers to create the plan and review it on a regular basis. 9.12 Personalised Learning Centre (PLC) For students who need additional support with their behaviour they will be given a place in the PLC. PLC support is differentiated depending on the students need but can consist of the following support: • KS3 - Morning meeting check -ins • Tuesday and Thursday KS3 revolving door x 7 students • KS4 - Morning check ins • 1:1 sessions 10. Uniform Students who wish to succeed wear the correct Academy uniform. Pride is one of our core values and it is important that our students take pride in themselves and in our Academy. It is important all members of our Academy are treated fairly. If students breach any one part of our strict uniform code then they will either be given some temporary uniform to wear, sent home to change, or will be isolated until their uniform is in line with Academy standards. We will do this to ensure that all our students take pride in their appearance and to make sure that our students are treated fairly. Any uniform issues related to protected characteristics of a student under the Equality Act will be considered individually. What is The City Academy’s uniform? • Black Shoes (no trainers/daps) • Black trousers/skirt • White Shirt (Tucked in) • House Tie • School Blazer • School Jumper is optional No outside coats/hoodies or jumpers are to be worn in the Academy. If a student is seen with such items then these will be removed and placed in the Haven where they can be collected after a discussion with their PSW or Pastoral Lead at the end of the school day. -- 16 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 17 11. Equipment Students who wish to succeed always bring the right equipment to the Academy, for the right lessons, each day. We wish to develop our students’ organisational skills for success in future life. For any important role in life, we need the right equipment and students need to make sure they provide it. Students are expected to bring the following to school: • A sensible and suitable bag • PE Kit (on the days they have PE) • Planner A pencil case that includes the following: • 2 black or blue pens • 2 pencils • A ruler • A rubber Students should store their equipment and books in their personal lockers. Mobile phones are not permitted in the Academy. We understand a student may need a phone for safety reasons. However once arriving at the Academy they must be switched off and kept in lockers (we cannot accept any responsibility for lost or stolen possessions). If a member of staff sees a mobile phone it will be confiscated and will be kept until the end of the day. If a student challenges this request, the phone will be kept until a parent / carer collects it. 12. Student transition To ensure behaviour is continually monitored and the right support is in place, information related to student behaviour issues may be transferred to relevant staff at the start of the term or year. Information on behaviour issues may also be shared with new settings for those students transferring to other schools. 13. Training Our staff are provided with training on managing behaviour, including proper use of restraint, as part of their induction process. Behaviour management will also form part of continuing professional development. There are a team of staff who are Team Teach trained, (please see CLF Team Teach policy). 14. Monitoring arrangements This behaviour policy will be reviewed and approved by the Principal and The Academy Council every 3 years. -- 17 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 18 15. Links with other policies This behaviour policy is linked to the following policies: • Exclusions policy • Safeguarding policy • Anti - Bullying policy • Inclusion • Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy • E Safety • Positive Handling • SEND policy -- 18 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 19 Appendix 1: Written Statement of Behaviour Principles • Every student understands they have the right to feel safe, valued and respected, and learn free from the disruption of others • All students, staff and visitors are free from any form of discrimination • Staff and volunteers set an excellent example to students at all times • Rewards, sanctions and reasonable force are used consistently by staff, in line with the behaviour policy • The behaviour policy is understood by students and staff • The exclusions policy explains that exclusions will only be used as a last resort, and outlines the processes involved in permanent and fixed-term exclusions • Students are helped to take responsibility for their actions • Families are involved in behaviour incidents to foster good relationships between the school and students’ home life The council also emphasises that violence or threatening behaviour will not be tolerated in any circumstances. This written statement of behaviour principles is reviewed and approved by the Academy Council every three years alongside the behaviour policy. -- 19 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 20 Appendix 2: Incident Form Incident form To be used to record an incident. Section one: Student/s involved: Staff members involved: Member of staff leading: (This must be SLT or a PSW) Safeguarding Concern: (If yes, complete an incident log on CPOMS) Physical restraint used (If yes, please complete Number and Bound): Section two: Date of Incident: Time of Incident: Place of Incident: Incident: -- 20 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 21 Section three: Outcome: Checklist- This form is to be completed by the member of staff that is on duty. Action Completed (please mark your initials) Section one of the incident form – Complete the student and staff details Section two of the -Record incident summary Obtain statements from all staff involved (use staff statement form) Obtain statements from all students involved ( use student statement form) Inform parents that an incident has occurred Decision made re outcome and any relevant sanction or referrals. Update Pastoral Log to reflect that an incident has occurred Add outcome to the incident form (inform parents, students and staff of the outcome) Admin -- 21 of 22 -- Behaviour Policy and Statement of Behaviour Principles Version 1 April 2019 Page 22 Add all documents, to the Incident Folder in the student’s folder. Documents should include Incident form, statements, CCTV and any other relevant documentation. * *Please ensure that they are all dated with the correct name and date relevant to the incident E.g. Aisha Thomas – 18 December 2018 – Fight Blue Village **Please note: A copy should be saved in the student folders, of all students involved in the incident. E.g. If fight involved Aisha Thomas, Jon Angell and Kelly Jefferies. It should be saved in all three student folders. Suggested outcomes: ▪ Link ▪ Exclusion ▪ Immersion ▪ Restorative Conversation ▪ PSHE supportive session ▪ Educational session ▪ SEND referral ▪ Pastoral Support Plan ▪ Pastoral Monitoring Card If it is an Exclusion or an Immersion - please follow the Exclusion or Immersion procedure. -- 22 of 22 --
