Unit 4 Step 3
Behaviour Scenarios
Learning Outcomes
Demonstrate a critical, evidence -based understanding of early learner development and how teachers can: assess learner needs for a group, taking into account individual needs, plan effective teaching and support which promotes high expectations and progress for al learners; and assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work
Activity
1. Look at each of these scenarios, below.
Discuss in your Teams group or with a colleague, if you want.
Write a short response describing how you would approach FIVE of these BfL situations.
Scenarios
​​​​You counted 12 pens out now 2 mins before the end of the lesson, only 11 have been handed back in.
During science practical work, a small number of pupils are throwing small pieces of tissue around the room and running around the room with bits on knives.
A large proportion of a class mess around during group work.
Despite warnings two pupils continue to flick paper at each other.
A pupil refuses to work with a group that you’ve assigned them to, but moves to work with another of their choice.
A girl repeatedly refuses to wear goggles/gloves/apron.
Whenever you give instructions the class talk over you and interrupt.
A group of pupils always add more than instructed e.g., chemicals, glue, paint
A significant number of pupils let others do the work during group work and simply chat and then write down the summary.
You move pupils round the front to watch a demonstration/show a prop and a pupil refuses to sit where you ask them to.
One pupil deliberately flicks water over another’s book.
Every lesson a pupil says “subject is so boring, why do we have to do it?”
A pupil never joins in with group activities whether it involves discussion or practical work.
Your responses to scenario1.
Your responses to scenario1. multi-line text editor.
Your responses to scenario 2.
Your responses to scenario 2. multi-line text editor.
Your responses to scenario 3.
Your responses to scenario 3. multi-line text editor.
Your responses to scenario 4.
Your responses to scenario 4. multi-line text editor.
Your responses to scenario 5.
Your responses to scenario 5. multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
