# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sr7sjfgHs8Zfk6h

Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom Responding to Individual Needs Shane N. Phillipson and Bick-har Lam -- 1 of 50 -- Hong Kong University Press 14/F Hing Wai Centre 7 Tin Wan Praya Road Aberdeen Hong Kong www.hkupress.org © Hong Kong University Press 2011 ISBN 978-988-8139-51-4 (Hardback) ISBN 978-988-8083-42-8 (Paperback) All rights reserved. No portion of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopy, recording, or any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher. British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Printed and bound by Condor Production Ltd. in Hong Kong, China -- 2 of 50 -- Contents Foreword by John Chi-kin Lee ix Foreword by Kerry J. Kennedy xiii Preface xv About the authors xix 1. The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 1 Bick-har Lam 2. Constructivist Perspectives on Learning 31 Bick-har Lam 3. Behavioural Models of Learning 63 Shane N. Phillipson 4. The Role of Intelligence in the Diversity of Learners 95 Shane N. Phillipson 5. The Role of Creativity in the Diversity of Learners 127 Shane N. Phillipson 6. Understanding the Development of the Self 145 Bick-har Lam 7. Motivation and Effective Learning among Chinese Learners 175 Shane N. Phillipson 8. Language Development in Chinese Learners 203 Shane N. Phillipson -- 3 of 50 -- viii Contents 9. The Social Context of Learning 231 Shane N. Phillipson 10. Teachers as Researchers and Teacher Development 265 Bick-har Lam 11. Lesson Planning, Assessment and Learning 291 Bick-har Lam Glossary 343 References 355 Index 383 -- 4 of 50 -- Foreword Chinese teachers and learners have become an increasingly fruitful focus for educational research, not least because Asia, especially China, has been drawing worldwide attention on account of the unprecedented economic and technological development. Beyond the classical Confucian Heritage Culture, there is a curious ‘paradox’ that, on the one hand, learners from East Asia are frequently seen as rote and passive learners but, on the other hand, international assessment studies, such as PISA and the TIMSS, show students from many of the countries within East Asia achieving consistently outstanding results. Hong Kong is a particularly interesting place within contemporary China and East Asia since it is where, distinctively, East meets West. Here, in what is one of Asia’s major world cities, there are obvious legacies of both the Confucian Heritage Culture and British colonialism. What actually happens in the context of learning and teaching in Hong Kong classrooms is an area that invites scholarly enquiry and ongoing critical reflection on successful practice. This book Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom has been written by two experienced scholars, Dr. Lam Bick-har, a specialist in curriculum studies, at the Hong Kong Institute of Education, and Dr. Shane Phillipson, a specialist in educational psychology at Monash University (Australia). A very readable and informative book, it provides a useful starting point for understanding the essence of learning and teaching in Chinese classrooms, including a range of thoughtful and insightful chapters on the following areas: the contexts of teaching in the twenty-first century; constructivist and behaviourist perspectives on learning; the role of intelligence in learning; creativity and learners; the development of the self in learners; motivation and effective learning; language development and the Chinese learner; the teacher as researcher and teacher development; lesson planning, assessment and learning; and the Chinese context of learning. Some of these chapters echo pertinent issues in curriculum, teaching and teacher development in the context of Hong Kong where the Curriculum Development Council promotes ‘learning to learn’ and the Advisory Committee on Teacher Education and Qualifications (ACTEQ) (2003) has published Towards a Learning Profession, highlighting the role of teachers as continuous and lifelong learners -- 5 of 50 -- x Foreword with ‘the responsibility for promoting professional development within the education sector’ and being ‘change-agents of educational reform (p. 16). In this book, each chapter guides the reader from an initial statement of personal learning objectives or outcomes through the substantive content and concludes with a glossary and suggested activities, which provide vital and stimulating issues or questions for discussion and reflection. The reader is encouraged to read actively and to engage in an interactive way with the substance of each chapter. In the first chapter on the contexts of teaching in the twenty-first century, Bick- har Lam writes, ‘… should we justify that the new active approach to teaching is suitable for learners—the answer is “yes”… However, learning from the example of Confucian educational thought, we may wonder if this new approach, and the need to educate future generations to adopt a global perspective, can be implemented effectively in our schools.’ We seem to encounter a dilemma over whether adopting the active approach to teaching is feasible and desirable. However, regarding the Hong Kong context of teaching and learning, Chan’s (2009, 204) study on two expert teachers concluded that ‘… Chinese learners used seemingly contradictory approaches to make meanings that transcended polarized distinctions of learning approaches, given task demands and contextual dynamics. Similarly, the Chinese teachers developed a transformed pedagogy that took into account student cognition and social infrastructure, integrating Chinese and Western approaches in scaffolding student inquiry, collaboration and understanding’. Duffy (2010, 357), in his recent discussion of direct instruction and constructivist perspectives, comments that ‘we all agree that we learn from lectures and reading books as well as through active, situated participation, and that, at times, drill and practice is necessary’. It has also been found that a high level of teacher support and involvement are salient features of Hong Kong classroom environments and, in contrast to the Western findings, it was teachers rather than students who exert more influence on students’ self-regulated learning (Lee, Yin, and Zhang 2009). It is thus possible and, perhaps, practical to explore critically and creatively different forms of effective Chinese pedagogy that assimilate certain features of the Western teaching approaches and enhance student learning in Hong Kong classrooms and elsewhere. There is encouragement here for teachers to engage in action research and reflective practice to resolve these dilemmas in teaching and learning. In Chapters 6 and 9, both authors refer to Bronfenbrenner’s bioecological systems theory in which different systems and contexts interact with each other and with individuals who grow and develop in complicated but fascinating ways. From an ecological perspective, perhaps we could consider placing greater emphasis and attention on the differentiated needs of students. Students are whole persons with a full range of needs and capacities (Sterling 2001). -- 6 of 50 -- Foreword xi It is pleasing to note that, while addressing the importance influence of Confucian culture on Chinese schoolchildren’s learning, Shane Phillipson concludes in Chapter 9 that ‘other important influences on a child’s learning include gender, parents, peers and teachers, some of which contribute positively to academic achievement, while others inhibit it. However, the picture is far from complete.’ Teaching is a learning and knowledge-based profession and, as you read this book, you will be helped to reflect on your own values and approaches towards learning and teaching and to think hard about different pathways to improve learning and teaching in your own classroom. Prof. John Chi-kin Lee Vice-President (Academic) Designate Chair Professor of Curriculum and Instruction Hong Kong Institute of Education References Advisory Committee on Teacher Education and Qualifications (ACTEQ) (2003). Towards a learning profession: The teacher competencies framework and the continuing professional development of teachers. Hong Kong: Government Logistics Department. Chan, C. K. K. (2009). Classroom innovation for the Chinese learner: Transcending dichotomies and transforming pedagogy. In C. K. K. Chan and N. Rao (Eds.), Revisiting the Chinese learner: Changing contexts, changing education (pp. 169–210). Hong Kong/The Netherlands: Springer and Comparative Education Research Centre, The University of Hong Kong. Duffy, T. M. (2010). Building lines of communication and a research agenda. In S. Tobias and T. M. Duffy (Eds.), Constructivist instruction: Success or failure (pp. 351–367). New York: Routledge. Lee, J. C. K., Yin, H. B., & Zhang, Z. (2009). Exploring the influence of the classroom environment on students’ motivation and self-regulated learning in Hong Kong. The Asia-Pacific Education Researcher, 18(2), 219–232. Sterling, S. (2001). Sustainable education: Revisioning learning and change. Devon, UK: Green Books Ltd. -- 7 of 50 -- About the authors Shane N. Phillipson is an associate professor at Monash University and previously at the Hong Kong Institute of Education. After obtaining a B.Sc. (Hons) and a graduate diploma in secondary education, he worked for many years as a mathematics and science teacher in New South Wales and South Australia. Shane Phillipson then obtained a graduate certificate in gifted education and a PhD from Flinders University (Australia). His PhD thesis was awarded the International Award (1999–2000) for best PhD thesis by the National Association for Gifted Children (NAGC) in the UK, and the 2001 Flinders University nomination for the Australian Association for Research in Education (AARE) Doctoral Thesis Award. Currently, Shane Phillipson teaches educational psychology, research methods and gifted education, and his research interests include cultural conceptions of giftedness and models of achievement. He has been awarded a number of research grants, resulting in publications in many international peer-reviewed journals, including High Ability Studies and Educational Psychology, and he is also a reviewer of research articles for these two journals. His edited books include Learning diversity in the Chinese classroom: Contexts and practice for students with special needs (2007), and Conceptions of giftedness: Socio-cultural perspectives (with M. McCann, 2007). Shane is a member of the American Psychological Association (APA), the Association for Psychological Science (APS), the World Council for Gifted and Talented Children, and the European Council for High Ability. Bick-har Lam is an associate professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction and in the Centre for Learning, Teaching and Technology at the Hong Kong Institute of Education. She obtained her degrees of bachelor in education and master in education from the University of East Anglia in the UK, and her PhD from the Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Bick-har Lam was a secondary school teacher before joining the Hong Kong Polytechnic University as an educational developer. She is currently involved in a number of research studies, which include a local study on ethnic minority students supported by the General Research Fund of the University Grants Committee, a series of studies on learner-oriented learning funded by the Teaching Development Grant, and an international project -- 8 of 50 -- xx About the authors on adolescent’s art across cultural borders supported by the International Society of Education through Art. Her most recent books include Young people’s visions of the world (co-edited with T. T. Eca and R. Kroupp, 2010) and Curriculum integration: An institute–school partnership approach (2009). She developed a syllabus (1993) and courses on art and craft (1996) and primary school teaching (2002) for the Open University of Hong Kong, and has been a programme leader and developer for Hong Kong government-commissioned teacher professional development courses. She has also developed the Active Classroom (A Class) website (http://www.ied.edu.hk/ aclass/) as an exchange platform for teachers to promote teaching and learning. In 2010, Bick-har Lam was awarded the Excellence in Teaching Award by the Hong Kong Institute of Education. -- 9 of 50 -- 1 The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century Bick-har Lam This chapter discusses: (a) the philosophical foundations of teaching in the East and West and their relevance to contemporary education; (b) the advantages and degeneration of Confucian education; and (c) the reform of classroom teaching in the twenty-first century in the context of Chinese culture. It aims to develop a solid grounding in the philosophical and cultural basis of education for teachers so that they can become fully functional professionals and make it more likely that the current reform initiatives will be successful. After completing this chapter, readers will be able to: • comprehend the major philosophies that guide teaching; • recognize the values behind various teaching philosophies; • develop a conceptual scheme for organizing various approaches to teaching; • situate teaching in the context of Hong Kong’s Chinese classrooms; • explain the influence of Confucian education on Hong Kong people; and • reflect on the historical degeneration of Confucian educational thought and develop a positive attitude to improving teaching in their cultural situation. This introductory chapter provides a foundation for understanding the teaching profession. The chapter first introduces the background to the present educational reform in Hong Kong, to set the context of teaching for teachers in general and specifically in a Chinese society. It then moves on to study various terminologies for understanding teacher thinking and action, including the philosophical foundations and beliefs about teaching, with reference to Confucian educational thought. It portrays how teachers’ thinking is guided by an array of values and preferences, and discusses educational ideas common across the East and West. The origins, development and degeneration in Chinese traditional educational thinking and ideas, and their current impact on Chinese societies, are examined. In the conclusion, readers are encouraged to think broadly about their practice in the classroom and contextualize themselves in their cultural environment and world trends, so that they can be professionals who play a crucial role in reforming and improving education. -- 10 of 50 -- 2 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom Educational Reform in the Twenty-First Century In Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and China, drilling became the predominant method of teaching because of their elitist and examination-based form of education. In Taiwan, China and Hong Kong, rote learning and drilling were cultural traditions (Biggs 1990), but a visionary set of educational reforms proposed in the late 1990s brought very significant changes to the focus of learning and teaching, with education being recast to address the development of human talent and ensure effective education for the betterment of students’ lives and the country’s future. Educational reform is a global phenomenon in this century, as can be seen in reform statements from several parts of Asia (Table 1.1). Table 1.1 Excerpts from educational reform statements from several parts of Asia Hong Kong To prepare our younger generation to meet the challenges of an ever advancing knowledge-based society and the dynamically changing environment, it is not enough to impart them with mere “knowledge”. Instead, we have to help them develop a global outlook, equip them with a repertoire of skills and the positive attitudes to respect knowledge and to learn how to learn’ (Curriculum Development Council 2001). ‘In the tide of changes, everyone has to meet new challenges. Adaptability, creativity and abilities for communication, self-learning, and cooperation are now the prerequisites for anyone to succeed, while a person’s character, emotional qualities, horizons and learning are important factors in achieving excellence. “Lifelong learning and all-round development” is our expectation from everyone in this era. Education is infinitely important for everyone’ (Education Commission 2000; emphasis added). Singapore ‘The Singapore Ministry of Education aims to help our students discover their own talents, to make the best of these talents and realize their full potentials, and to develop a passion for learning through life’ (Singapore Ministry of Education 2006). Taiwan ‘Innovative changes have been initiated to ensure equal access to education for all students, to relieve their pressure from examinations, to offer more room for school-based management, and to improve teaching quality. Many education- related regulations were overhauled to create a more liberal education environment … While the educational reform continues, the MOE (Ministry of Education) has been promoting a new four-year program for educational development since 2004 to accommodate new developments in society. With a vision for a ‘Creative Taiwan with a Global Perspective,’ educational policies in the next four years will be formulated in accordance with four directives: cultivating modern citizens, promoting Taiwan identity, fostering global perspectives, and increasing concern for society. Actions will be taken to encourage students to appreciate cultural diversity and to respect universal values as the government attempts to expand their knowledge about Taiwan’s unique traits, to increase their opportunities for interaction with international students, and to strengthen their character. An education system that better meets the needs brought forth by social, economic, and global trends is the key to upgrading Taiwan’s national competitiveness’ (Government Information Office 2005). -- 11 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 3 The reforms in this century have been triggered largely by the effects of globalization. Globalization is a complex concept, which may be easiest to understand in terms of its economic aspects: the integration of national economies into the international economy through trade, foreign direct investment, capital flows, migration and the spread of technology. With globalization, there is increasing contact across borders and faster communication between countries. To survive in this new economy, countries have to become more productive to remain competitive; and with the development of worldwide market networks, business firms need to upgrade their products and apply technological solutions. In this context, many governments have made significant changes in their educational systems aimed at developing a workforce that meets global requirements. This idea was captured in the 1997 policy address of the Hong Kong Chief Executive: I said on 1 July that education is the key to the future of Hong Kong. It provides a level playing field for all and the human resources for further economic development. Our education system must be firmly rooted in the needs of Hong Kong; it must enable us to contribute to the development of our country; it must give us an international outlook. It should be diverse, drawing on the strengths of East and West. It must inspire commitment to excellence. I will now set out our plans to achieve that. (HKSAR Government Secretariat 1997) In 2000 the Hong Kong Education Commission commented that the qualities of a ‘global outlook’ include adaptability, creativity and abilities for communication, self-learning and co-operation. In the same year, curriculum reform was initiated, with curricular documents which promoted ‘learning to learn’ being publicized in schools, teacher education institutions and the media. The catchphrase ‘learning to learn’ signifies clearly an educational philosophy identified with the ‘constructivist’ model of teaching and learning (see Chapter 2) which, in brief, places the learners at the centre of the educational process, with teachers involving them as active agents in learning instead of rote learners. Understanding Teaching and Learning To get a full understanding of the teaching-learning process, we recommend that you first consider questions such as: • What does teaching mean to you? • What do you expect students to learn when you teach? • What is the primary concern of teachers when they play a role in the community? -- 12 of 50 -- 4 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom In addressing these questions, you should try to develop perspectives and concepts for explaining the process to justify your views and develop a philosophy that guides your classroom practice. If teaching is an ‘art’, then teachers should be creative in utilizing all the knowledge, methods and skills that can benefit learning. The questions above are important whether you are preparing to teach or are already a teacher or other practitioner in the field of education. The Philosophical Foundations of Teaching There are many diverse viewpoints about teaching, which reflect the personal beliefs of individuals. Philosophical orientations to teaching refer to the nature of teaching, which includes its meaning, the content to be taught, the expected student behaviour and the role that teachers and students play. Holding particular teaching philosophies can make a difference to the lives of students. A summary of the prevalent philosophical orientations to teaching is given below. Existentialism Existentialism developed from a philosophy that focuses on the subjectivity of individuals. Teachers who adopt an existentialist approach encourage students to develop their creativity and independence of mind in a context in which teaching is less directive and students are given freedom to make their own decisions. This philosophy stresses that students should take responsibility for their own actions and experience life in their own way, instead of allowing other people to decide what is best for them. This approach was championed by Alexander Sutherland Neill (1883–1973) (Neill 1995). Marxism Based on a belief in the ever-changing nature of reality, Marxist teaching focuses on long-standing conflicts that exist in society, especially those that relate to economic and social inequality. Marxism seeks to create a better, more harmonious society in which people can relate to their work and to each other in a more humane way. Reflection and active engagement rather than passive reception of knowledge is encouraged; and students are urged to acquire knowledge and skills which will enable them to contribute positively to the transformation of society. Marxism aims to change the material conditions of society to produce a classless society. Jürgen Habermas (Habermas 1987) is an exponent of this orientation to education. -- 13 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 5 Behaviourism Behaviourism contends that student behaviour can be managed effectively by careful control of the learning environment and manipulation of the kinds of reward and punishment used. Behaviourists assert that learning can be optimized by presenting the right stimuli to students. This philosophy, which is associated most often with Burrhus Frederic Skinner (1904–90), was the dominant research framework in psychology in the USA during the first half of the twentieth century (Epstein 1982). The effects of behaviourism are still felt today, with behavioural approaches such as conditioning, shaping and social learning being employed in designing teaching methods (see Chapter 3). Other behaviourist influences include giving timely feedback and using behavioural contracts. The behaviourist aims to maximize learning efficiency by engineering the environment. Cognitivism Formed mainly in response to the limitations of behaviourism, cognitivism was influential in the latter half of the twentieth century. Cognitivism holds that recognizing unobservable cognitive elements, such as intent, motivation and cognitive complexity, is important for learning. Teachers who advocate this philosophy focus on trying to stimulate cognitive development by, for example, presenting to students concepts that are challenging but not too difficult for their level of cognitive development. Apart from subject knowledge, thinking and study skills are taught to students, enabling them to become independent, lifelong learners. One of the best-known cognitive psychologists is Jerome Bruner (1915–) who had a very significant influence on educational theory and practice in the 1960s and 1970s. Perennialism Perennialism focuses on the unchanging nature of truth. Perennialists believe that the teaching and learning of great classical works enables students to acquire timeless principles and knowledge. The use of textbooks is discouraged, and students are instructed to use canonical works. The proponents of this philosophy argue that learning directly from the greatest minds and works in different areas is the best way for students to achieve holistic development. As perennialism aims at the acquisition of timeless principles of reality, truth and value, learning is essentially for its own sake. Robert Maynard Hutchins (1899–1977) wrote important treatises on perennialist education (e.g. Hutchins 1947) which, by promoting this philosophy, -- 14 of 50 -- 6 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom contributed significantly to the structure of undergraduate degrees in the University of Chicago from the late 1920s to the mid-1940s. Essentialism Essentialism stresses the teaching of basic and essential knowledge, as well as moral values, and maintains that ‘traditional’ ways of teaching through direct instruction, repeated practice and testing are effective. Teachers who espouse this philosophy believe that it is their duty to transmit knowledge and values that are important for students to become responsible, contributing members of society. William Bagley (1874–1946) was a renowned essentialist educator in the earlier part of the twentieth century. Progressivism Progressivism proposes that knowledge should be constructed through experience, and that the main purpose of education is to develop individuals’ potential to the full. Viewing traditional subject knowledge as alienating, progressive teachers urge students to adopt an active, ‘hands-on’ approach to learning in handling real-life activities with others. Schools are regarded as a co-operative community in which students develop their capacities, satisfy their needs and prepare for their roles as active citizens in a democratic society. Progressivism is aligned with pragmatism, which focuses on practical knowledge and a democratic society. The writings of John Dewey (1859–1952) in the early twentieth century formed the bedrock of this teaching orientation. Social reconstructionism Social reconstructionism aims to create a better world through education. Students are educated to see the problems that beset society (e.g. inequality, poverty and pollution), think critically about them and find creative solutions. Social reconstructionists believe that, to institute systemic changes and create a better society, the status quo must be broken. To solve society’s problems, the next generation is therefore urged to champion social movements. Theodore Brameld (1904–87), an important advocate of social reconstructionism in education, contributed to the development of this orientation throughout his working life. -- 15 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 7 Teachers’ Beliefs about Teaching Table 1.2 shows the contrasting orientations to teaching of two teachers—one a behaviourist and the other an existentialist. As noted earlier, behaviourist teachers guide learners towards appropriate behaviours by conditioning them to learn in a preset, prescribed and programmed sequence; the teachers present a world that is determined greatly by externally defined outcomes. In contrast, existentialist teachers emphasize self-development and provide opportunities for self-exploration, helping students to realize their potential for making choices. Clearly, teachers with such differing orientations plan their lessons, interact with students and judge student performance according to their own views of knowledge, which depend heavily on their idealized conceptions of teachers’ roles. Nevertheless, such different philosophical orientations should be seen as inclinations rather than rigid, neat definitions for explaining one’s thinking and action. Table 1.2 Comparison between existentialist and behaviourist teachers The existentialist teacher The behaviourist teacher Jessica is an experienced art teacher in a secondary school. To an outsider, her classes may seem a bit chaotic. One moment you may find a student standing on his/her chair and next all the students cheerfully tearing up newspapers. She often sits with one group of students, listening and sharing ideas with them. Other students also discuss with one another in different groups. Instead of instilling norms and knowledge into the students, Jessica prefers her students to explore and make sense of things themselves. Existentialist teachers stress the individuality and responsibility of students for their own lives. They believe that students should learn to think for themselves and should exercise freedom of choice with responsibility. Existentialist teachers tend to use less direct instruction and prefer to discuss with students. They allow students to experiment with different ideas. In the words of Jessica, ‘Direct transmission of knowledge to students has a negative effect on them. They become indifferent to things and problems around them. In teaching, I want to develop their own understanding and also their thinking and feeling related to their self and realization of their existence. These are fundamental for any person living in the society.’ Leslie is an experienced art teacher in a secondary school. He starts the lesson by introducing the topic. Leslie usually goes on to give a well-planned lecture on the topic, focusing on the specific skills he intends to develop among his students. He attaches much importance to the clear demonstration of the skills. To facilitate learning, he breaks the movements involved down into smaller units. In class activities, Leslie makes sure to praise those who perform well and promptly corrects wrong behaviour, leading students to achieve the right outcomes in their work. He gives his students numerous exercises, believing that repeated practice helps them to retain what they have learned. Behaviourist teachers maintain that effective learning can be achieved by conscious manipulation of the learning environment, paying particular attention to the kind of reinforcements and punishments that are present or absent in the environment, and by measuring learning outcomes from student performance, which are often identified as observable. In the words of Leslie, ‘I make it as clear as possible to my students what behaviours are expected of them and what are not. I then focus my attention on providing them with timely feedback—rewarding good behaviours and punishing bad ones. This is very important.’ -- 16 of 50 -- 8 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom Table 1.3 summarizes the research findings on the teaching beliefs of primary and secondary school teachers. These findings, which illustrate a range of conceptions about teaching, reflect various educational philosophies which have resulted in three typical approaches to classroom teaching. The first approach emphasizes the learning of subject knowledge; the second focuses on student development and recognizes that students are responsible for increasing their knowledge; and the final approach, which sees teaching as a means of training students for the benefit of society, stresses the acquisition of knowledge and skills essential for building the economy, for improving society and for other society-oriented reasons (e.g. respect for ecology for the survival of the society and its people). Subject-centred teachers are strongly attached to essentialism and perennialism, which view knowledge as unchanging, and therefore prescribe the content of learning. They may define learning simply as making learners achieve something that is believed to be important and right, such as learning the classics to become responsible, contributing members of the society. On the other hand, student-centred teachers are influenced mainly by cognitivism, progressivism and existentialism, which stress human development in terms of cognitive development, self-realization, life goals and values. Such teachers strive to support students in becoming independent learners with high intellectual ability who realize their full potential by being given opportunities to grow, achieve and excel. Learners are placed at the centre of the educational process as the aim of education is no longer simply the delivery of knowledge but the total development of individuals. Student- and society-centred teachers display a belief in the ideas of Marxism or social reconstruction. They view learners as participants in reconstructing society and involve them in critical thinking, debate, discussion and investigation to address social issues, such as the class struggle, racism, poverty, pollution and social inequality. These teachers argue that, through education, the younger generation can contribute to a better world. The above analysis underlines the important message that teachers teach in very different ways which have a different impact on the lives of students. For students, learning can be a very mechanical, controlled and boring task if teachers just focus on subject knowledge and limit their delivery methods to manipulation, drilling and mechanistic and impersonal programmed instruction. However, learning can be a challenging task for learners if teachers care about their students’ growth and development and allow them to explore authentic tasks that are meaningful to them. In addition, student-teacher interactions can add valuable support to learners, both academically and emotionally. Learning can also be related to the wider society, with students identifying themselves as responsible citizens who contribute to society by helping to solve societal problems. -- 17 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 9 Table 1.3 Alignment of the categories of teaching beliefs Orientations Authors Subject-centred Student-centred Student-society Chapman (1979) Realistic Experimentalistic Idealistic Personalistic Proventzo et al.(1989) Trainer An anchor for children Nurturer of things that grow Freire and Sanches (1992) Traditional Experimental Constructivist Social Steven and Palincsar (1992) Mechanistic Contextualistic (provision of environment for intellectual interaction) Bennet and Spalding (1991) Inculcator Scholar psychologist Friendly scholar (both concentrated on academic knowledge acquisition) Facilitator of thinking and lifelong learning Empowerer Nurturer Friendly pedagogy Gurney (1995) Delivery change (effect radical transformation with teacher-centred manipulation) Change (assist growth) Enlightenment Humanistic Christensen et al. (1995) Authoritarian and disciplinarian Presenter of information Shaper of children’s lives (instruct students to learn) Facilitator of thinking and learning The nurturing helper Ennis et al. (1997) Mastery of the discipline Learning process (realize knowledge through guided and instructive activities) Self- actualization Ecological integration Social responsibility Bibik (1997) Performer (performing in the class to show clear instruction and guidance) Construction (building the foundation and adding up until it is built) Group leader (acting as coach or guide) Change agent Sources of learning/ inspiration Parent and protector Lam (2000) Instructional Disciplinary inquiry Social interaction Personal Boulton-Lewis et al. (2001) Transmission of content skills Development of skills/ understanding Facilitation of understanding Transformation -- 18 of 50 -- 10 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom What should teachers note about these different teaching beliefs? They should be aware that certain teaching approaches limit the realization of some aspects of human potential. For example, overemphasizing subject knowledge and overlooking the cultivation of cognitive development may constrain student achievement. In the worst case, students may be conditioned to carry out extremely low-level cognitive activities, such as memorization and recitation, and may become passive, uncritical, uncreative and unintelligent. Student-centred approaches to teaching may also be harmful if there are no learning expectations to promote students’ intellectual growth. Also, while education can help to develop a generation with a bright academic future, we still need to be mindful of their character-building and personal development. Students should regard themselves as contributing members of the society, consider the meaning of life and develop their social skills for living and interacting with others in society and the world at large. Finally, it should be noted that while beliefs about teaching are shaped by a variety of factors, including previous learning experiences and the influence of significant persons and events (Mok 1994), the methods teachers actually employ may differ from their beliefs and conceptions about teaching due to contextual factors, such as school syllabi, assessment methods and student aptitudes (Lam and Kember 2006). Branches of Thought that Guide Teaching Having introduced various philosophical orientations to teaching, this section aims to deepen your understanding of teachers’ thinking about teaching by exploring several branches of thought in the discipline of philosophy that govern how people think about the world. The section covers six areas that are relevant to classroom teaching, with each branch addressing key questions for everyone, such as: ‘What is the nature of reality?’; ‘What is the nature of knowledge?’; ‘Is there truth?’; ‘What should be the value of living?’; ‘What is good, and what is evil?’; ‘What is the nature of beauty?’ and ‘What kind of reasoning produces valid and consistent results?’ Metaphysics When growing up, you may have asked questions such as: ‘What is life?’, ‘What is the purpose of living?’ and ‘What is real?’ Metaphysics is concerned with the nature of being, and seeks to understand and explain the nature of reality, not only how it appears but also what it is, why it exists and how human beings value it. Teachers -- 19 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 11 may think that metaphysics is not their concern, but it is an important foundation for contextualizing teaching. The school curriculum is influenced by our understanding of reality—for example, if reality is seen as serving the divine, religious studies would dominate the school life of children. In fact, the inclusion of any item in the curriculum reflects how we construct reality for children, and so it is fundamental for teachers to enquire into metaphysics in justifying the teaching curriculum and the school life of students: What is the purpose of delivering this curriculum? What do I want to achieve? Epistemology Epistemology is a branch of philosophy which is concerned with the nature and scope of knowledge. It seeks to answer the following basic questions: • What is knowledge? • How is knowledge acquired? • What do people know? • How do we know what we know? • What distinguishes true (adequate) knowledge from false (inadequate) knowledge? • Is there a constant truth? • What kind of knowledge is most important? Teachers may need to answer such questions in deciding how to teach, and their responses will affect the content and teaching methods they consider to be appropriate. According to Parkay and Stanford (2007), there are five ways of knowing that are of interest to teachers when they decide on their curricula and teaching plans: 1. knowing based on authority (e.g. knowledge from sages, such as Confucius, poets, experts, rulers, textbooks or teachers); 2. knowing based on divine revelation (e.g. knowledge in the form of supernatural revelations from the Sun god of early peoples or from the gods of ancient Greece); 3. knowing based on empiricism (experience) (i.e. knowledge acquired through the senses, informally gathered empirical data that direct most of our daily behaviour); 4. knowing based on reason and logical analysis (i.e. knowledge inferred from the process of logical thinking); and 5. knowing based on intuition (i.e. knowledge arrived at without the use of rational thought). -- 20 of 50 -- 12 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom Axiology Axiology is concerned with values. A teacher should develop values related to the school, the curriculum and other school activities. What values should be held in teaching? What values should students be encouraged to adopt in lessons? Such axiological questions highlight the very important idea that the knowledge students acquire should improve the quality of their lives—knowledge is useful when it is applied in daily life. Hence, asking such questions provides support to teachers in developing their missions and career aspirations: teaching becomes meaningful as teachers are not merely completing routine tasks but are recounting the importance of what they have done in their students’ lives and are justifying the quality of life they have promoted in the school curriculum. There are three branches of values within the spectrum of axiology: 1. Ethics: Teachers may need to justify what is good and what is evil, what is right and what is wrong, and what is fair and what is unfair. Ethical values or knowledge of ethics can help teachers to overcome difficult classroom situations, especially when dilemmas arise. The choice of streaming or mixed-class policies is also an issue in which teachers should exercise ethical judgement to arrive at an acceptable solution. 2. Aesthetics: Although teachers may not be teaching art, music, literature or dance, teaching is itself an art. Aesthetics, which refers to judgement of the artistic standards of beauty and quality, can help teachers perform well in the classroom and other interactions with students. For example, teachers may present classroom rules as instructions, or they may describe them in a conversational tone close to the students: speaking in class is already an art. 3. Logic: Teachers constantly work with students on problem solving and often introduce them to the process of reasoning in finding answers or reaching valid conclusions. They frequently use two approaches to logical reasoning: deductive thinking and inductive reasoning. The former requires the thinker to move from a general principle or proposition to a specific conclusion, whereas the latter involves working on specific examples to discover generally accepted rules. The Socratic method of questioning is representative of inductive reasoning and is widely adopted in teaching. How Knowledge Is Defined Makes a Difference to Teaching Epistemology is concerned with how people think about knowledge and how changes in thinking about knowledge affect teachers. This philosophical lens is -- 21 of 50 -- The Contexts of Teaching in the Twenty-First Century 13 concerned mainly with people’s views on knowledge (i.e. what is knowledge?), and this section tries to bring together what has been discussed so far by referring to the changing conceptions of knowledge. It also makes clear why people behave differently by examining their different perspectives on understanding knowledge. In the past, knowledge was conceptualized as both absolute and static, and the role of learners was described as passive. However, knowledge is now considered as situation-dependent, constructed by interactions between people and the world— and, over time, these conceptions continue to change. In the fourth century BC, Plato defined knowledge as ‘absolute, universal ideas or forms, existing independently of any subject trying to apprehend to them’ (Rorty 1991). Later, empiricism moved away from absolutism, considering knowledge as the product of sensory perceptions instead of an objective existence. In the eighteenth century, Kant denied the possibility of arriving at absolute knowledge and, by synthesizing rationalism and empiricism, he saw knowledge as the product of rational reflection, an idea which had a strong influence on thinking methodologies. According to Kant, knowledge comes from the organization of perceptual data based on inborn cognitive structures called ‘categories’ (Kneller 1971), which refer to space, time, objects and causality. This epistemology accepts the subjectivity of basic concepts, such as space and time, but rejects the idea of a purely objective representation of things in themselves. Another significant advance in considering knowledge was the emergence of pragmatism in the twentieth century, which influenced both cognitive science and artificial intelligence. In pragmatic epistemology, knowledge consists of models that attempt to represent the environment in a way that ‘maximally simplifies problem solving’ (Heylighen 1993). While it is believed that no model can ever capture all relevant information, the parallel existence of different models is acceptable despite contradictions between them, as any model that can solve problems can be regarded as a model for interpretation. The basic criterion is that the model should be precise and simple, and can produce correct (or approximate) predictions (which may be tested) or problem-solutions (ibid.). Pragmatic epistemology does not give clear answers to the question about where knowledge comes from: pragmatic knowledge can be built up by trial-and-error, by intuition and by testing empirical data. Constructivism has provided a radical answer to the challenge of the objectivity of knowledge. As implied by the term, constructivist epistemology assumes that all knowledge is constructed from scratch by individuals and so does not accept any ‘givens’, including objective empirical data or facts and inborn categories or cognitive structures (ibid.). In constructivism, it is argued that the only reality we can know is what is represented by human thoughts. It disapproves of knowledge from authority and from divine revelation; and it therefore is critical of objectivism and absolutism, and suggests that meaning or knowledge is always produced by -- 22 of 50 -- 14 Learning and Teaching in the Chinese Classroom human construction (Watzlawick 1984). Even the representations of physical and biological reality, such as species, cars, chairs and tables, are socially constructed knowledge (O’Neill 1981). Constructivism flourished in the history of philosophy and has developed into several streams which have been widely applied in psychology and education. Constructivists attempt to attain coherence among different pieces of knowledge and reject inconsistent pieces. In its radical form, ‘individual constructivism’, it is assumed that ‘concepts, models, theories, and so on are viable if they prove adequate in the contexts in which they were created’ by individuals (von Glasersfeld 1995, 7). In addition, this form of constructivism holds that knowledge is characterized by ‘viability’, which can be highly personal. On the other hand, in social constructivism, categories of knowledge and reality are seen as being created through social relationships and interactions, in which semiotic resources come to inhabit a shared form of life (Searle 1995). These interactions also alter the organization of scientific epistemology. Constructivist psychologists consider that human beings create systems that provide a meaningful understanding of their worlds and experiences. For instance, in psychotherapy, psychologists try to understand the worldview of their patients in an effort to expand the meaning of their patients’ lives. In education, constructivism supports a way of teaching that overcomes the limitations of the behaviourist teaching model, and of the positivist and rationalist models for organizing teaching that focus on external knowledge and scientific experiments. The constructivist approach to teaching stimulates educators to reflect on the different needs, cognitions and experiences of learning. It rejects a subject-centred approach to teaching and focuses on the learner who plays an active role in the construction of knowledge. Prominent among educators who favour the constructivist philosophy are John Dewey (1859–1952), Lev Vygotsky (1896–1934) and Jean Piaget (1896–1980). Today, constructivism still influences cognitive science, linguistics, anthropology, neurophysiology and computer science. Constructivist approaches to teaching are discussed in Chapter 2. Another influential branch of epistemology is ‘evolutionary epistemology’, with Karl Popper (1902–94) as the representative figure. It applies the concepts of biological evolution to understand the growth of human knowledge and proposes that ‘knowledge is construed by the subject or group of subjects in order to adapt to their environment in the broad sense’ (Heylighen 1993). The construction is an ongoing process at different levels: biological, psychological and social. Evolutionary epistemologists argue that knowledge, especially scientific theories, evolve according to …
