# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfy7WHn9yGzwdGr

M odule Handbook 202 5 /2 6 Module Name: Learn ing and Teaching Module Code : UTTGXF-30-M or UTLH44-30-3 Module Leader Name: Dr Juliet Edmonds M odule Handbook 202 5 /2 6 Module Name: Learn ing and Teaching Module Code : UTTGXF-30-M or UTLH44-30-3 Module Leader Name: Dr Juliet Edmonds Introduction Welcome to Learning and Teaching. This module studies the essential of teaching and learning allowing you to find out about inoovative practice and to reflect on your own practice. Please note that th is electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Introduction PAGEREF _Toc170128304 \h 2 1. Module team information PAGEREF _Toc170128305 \h 3 2. Communication and student voice PAGEREF _Toc170128306 \h 3 3. Module specific information PAGEREF _Toc170128309 \h 3 4. Assessment PAGEREF _Toc170128310 \h 3 5. Feedback PAGEREF _Toc170128311 \h 4 6. Reading and resources PAGEREF _Toc170128312 \h 4 7. Advice and support PAGEREF _Toc170128317 \h 4 8. Projects and dissertations PAGEREF _Toc170128318 \h 5 Module team information Module Le ader - Dr Juliet Edmonds Module T eam – Dr Rich Baker, Dr Fay Lweis, Malcolm Richards and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken External examiners from other institutions are appointed to each module to act independently and work with the module team in the management of threshold academic standards. Information is available about t he external examiner appointe d to this module Communication and student voice Throughout your time with us, you will receive regular communication s; t he main communication channel s used are Pebblepad site s and your UWE email address. I t is your responsibility to read e verything that you are sent and act upon it where appropriate. Fo r information about tutorials and assessment feedback please contact your tu tor who will be assignmed to you. The tutors work on a number of programmes so please be patient for a reply. For general programme issues contact the course leaders on IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk . Siamak.alimi@uwe.ac.uk is available to support you with any I.T. difficulties. Each cohort has an appointed student representative. This representative will bring issues to the Programme leader s. Each mnodule will be reviewed using a Qualtrics survey . Student feedback - Study | UWE Bristol . In response to student feedback, we have made a number of changes e.g., reducing the number of platforms the students have to engage with and providing videos to explain the assessment uploading process. You said it, we did it. . Module specific information Learn ing and Teach ing is a module for sustained discussion around classroom practice – both the science and the art of teaching. Here you will learn about learners – how they might think, act, be influenced, and respond to interventions. You will also learn about teachers – how they might think, act, be influenced, and influence pupils. The f our discrete aims of this module are stated as follows: Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary best practice pedagogical approaches and frameworks, recognising their implications for practice . MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Curriculum The information that follows is a comprehensive curriculum for the Learners and Teachers module. Further Module Specification information can be found here (you may have to copy and paste the link into your browser): https://info.uwe.ac.uk/modules/displayentry.asp?code=UTLGXF-30-M&amp;rp=listEntry.asp Learners and Teachers sessions follow a relatively standard format, although this is liable to adaptation to best serve the content of each session: a ‘keynote’ lecture, either live on campus or delivered remotely through Pebblepad ( ii ) live session s with your academic tutor and peers ( iii ) further readings to engage with voluntarily (iv) school based tasks. Your active engagement in sessions will greatly enhance your academic experience – to coin the cliché aphorism, ‘you get out what you put in’. When functioning successfully the tutor time is a space to challenge, debate, expose, and engage with the subject of the session – constructing new knowledge collaboratively and consider critically and contextually the content of each lecture. You might note that all the sessions listed have been mapped to our UWE Transformational Teacher Framework. The Learners and Teachers module has been formulated to comprehensively cover the core concerns of classroom teaching in an English secondary school. As such, sessions will focus acutely on seven areas of the TTF: Pedagogy , and how young people learn , Behaviour Management and Assessment , or how you might teach , Curriculum , Professional Behaviours , and SEND understanding. There is also a common theme of Equity that runs throughout the module delivery, as some inputs will ask you to reflect on issues of diversity and inclusion in the classroom. While much of what we do inter-relates a number of descriptors, the righthand column is colour-coded to suggest the primary link, following the key below: Assessment Autonomy Behaviour Management Context Evidence-led Criticality Curriculum Equity Expertise Pedagogy Professional Behaviours SEND Module Units The module’s sessions listed below are organised to represent areas of pedagogy and practice. As the module is delivered by a diverse range of expert colleagues, there is always some potential for the dates for each session delivery to change, but please do refer to the programme schedule in the programme handbook and on Pebblepad for provisional dates. Learning and Teaching Unit Title and Aims International Teacher Standards 1. Values and Educational Philosophy. Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts. TS1 Set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils. TS2 Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils. TS8 Fulfil wider professional responsibilities. 2. The development of the student An introduction to key theories of learning and development and how theories support pedagogical practices. D emonstrate a critical, evidence-based understanding of learner development. TS2 Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils. 3. Curriculum. A consideration of the relationship between curriculum and culture as well as policy . A nalys e local curriculum aims and purpose s and h ow has the curriculum changes in the light of international developments, technological progres s. TS2 Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils. TS3 Demonstrate good subject and curriculum knowledge. 4. Behaviour for Learning. Explore behaviour approaches underpinned by theory. Identify and critically evaluate the importance of promoting positive behaviours and well-being of pupils as part of teaching practices. Critically analyse the importance of inclusion and the potential inhibitors to pupil’s positive behaviours and well-being. TS7 Managing behaviour effectively to ensure a good and safe learning environment. 5. Effective pedagogies in teaching and learning 1: Challenge, questioning, explanation and modelling. A review of research on current effective learning strategies with the focus on: challenge, and teacher questioning . TS2 Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils. TS5 Adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils. TS6 Make accurate and productive use of assessment. 6. Effective pedagogies in teaching and learning 2: Practice, cognitive load theory and metacognition. A review of research on current effective learning strategies with the focus on; active learning, cognitive load theory retrieval, practice, modelling and metacognition. TS2 Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils. 7. Assessment for Learning: Explore why we assess, what do we assess and who is it for? Identify and critically evaluate current practices and research, including self-assessment, questioning and pupil feedback. Critically analyse assessment informing practice vs local accountability. TS6 Make accurate and productive use of assessment. 8. Addressing the needs of all pupils: Define educational need and evaluate perspectives of addressing special educational needs. Explore inclusion and strategies for reducing barriers to achievement. Neurodiversity, TS5 Adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils. 9. Student well-being and the pastoral role of the teacher. An exploration of the pastoral role of the teacher/ form tutor. Identify how to work with parents and other professionals to support pupils. Examine Safeguarding policy and practice in schools. TS1 Set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils. TS8 Fulfil wider professional responsibilities. 10. Evaluation and planning. Considering a range of p lanning options including how to link observation and assessment to planning to d evelop an effective assessment / planning cycle . Explore the impact of w orking with the individual pupil within a group environment and r ecognis e how your philosophy of education will affect planning choices and provision . TS4 Plan and teach well-structured lessons. TS8 Fulfil wider professional responsibilities. . 4. Ass essment Please access the Assessment Briefs which is a/are separate documents on Pebblepad Assessment brief_2025-26 v.2 La nad T.docx where you will find all essential details regarding submission requirements and relevant information . Feedback You will receive feedback in a variety of forms through out the module , therefore it is important to attend timetabled sessions to ensure you do not miss out on these opportunities . You will also receive feedback on a ssessed work ; this may be individually or as a group/cohort , which will enable you to understand how you have met the assessment criteria and identify areas for your further improvement. MyUWE is used to communicate unconfirmed marks, provide cover sheets for assessments and to submit work. Further information on all aspects of your myUWE portal is available on the website . Feeback will normally be sent back to you by your tutor. R eading and resources Resources and reading material relevant to y our module can be accessed online, either directly through the link below or through the module’s Pebblepad page. Th is short video available on the library’s website will introduce you to some of the key features of the online reading list system . . Advice and support There are a range of facilities and services you can go to for advice and support depending on what the issue is. Remember - asking for help at the earliest possible stage will help you in the long run. Please contact Information Point who may signpost you to other professional services such as; Library study skills support Generative AI Guide Student Support A dvisers Disability Service Health and Wellbeing Services Money and Finance Immigration Advice Service
