Unit 4 Step 5
Personal Action
Learning Objective
Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of learners’ lives can influence their learning, behaviours and wellbeing
Demonstrate a critical, evidence -based understanding of early learner development and how teachers can: assess learner needs for a group, taking into account individual needs, plan effective teaching and support which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners
Activities
1. With a colleague or on the Teams discussion or in school:
Discuss your ideas, concerns and hopes for managing behaviour in your school.
Do you believe that BM is your responsibility?
Are there any subject specific BM issues?
2. Follow up reflection on your own school behaviour situation
Review the policy documents on behaviour from your school:
What do you like about it?
Is there anything that doesn’t make sense?
Does it seem easy to follow?
2. To think about and discuss in school:
What does behaviour management look like in your subject(s)? What are the potential issues that could affect behaviour?
Art – resources and craft equipment? Freedom to move?
Maths – silent working? Extended on task learning?
DT – dangerous equipment and hazardous working situation?
MFL – disinterested learners? EAL students?
Humanities – mixed ability classes? Love/hate relationship with subject?
English – fear of reading out loud? Significant ability difference within the group?
Computer Science/ICT – internet access? Staying on task?
Science – practical work? Outdoor work? Content overload?
3. Think about what your next step is going to be.
Reflecting on your learning  in this unit against the learning outcome and
Using the Paul Dix approach choose THREE of the following to plan your next step.
Make a pledge -
Meet and Greet
Make learners feel important, valued and like they belong
Use positive notes
Introduce a recognition board
Simplify Rules
Refuse to shout
Give first attention to this doing the right thing.
Take the fame out of being badly behaved
Make a point of recognising and praising behaviour that is over and above
Strip out every last drop of negative emotion from behaviour interventions
Use a 30 second intervention when children dig their heels in
Practice micro scripts every day.
Put your pledges on the Padlet. Use this information to focus your engagement with the assignment.
Notes on discussions
(Describe what you wish them to do and reflect on exactly)
Notes on discussions multi-line text editor.
Word count: 0
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
