Unit 4 Step 2
Behaviour Management Strategies
Learning Outcomes
Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice international primary/secondary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the primary/secondary Foundation Stage, and their contexts,
Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of learners’ lives can influence their learning, behaviours and wellbeing
Reading Activity
"The adults who work with the most difficult behaviours are always in control of themselves before they attempt to control others.
Build a school that is full of them and there are no limits to achievement.”
Paul Dix (2017)
Read the following reading by Paul Dix and make notes. It may seem lengthy but it is very quick and easy to read.
What have you read?
Also available here. Make sure you are logged onto the library. If this is too long choose parts that are relevant to you.
Dix, P. (2017) When Adults Change, Everything Changes. Independent Thinking Press. Pages 3 to 159
1. What do you think of the approach of Paul Dix to behaviour management?
Write your answer below:
1. What do you think of the approach of Paul Dix to behaviour management? multi-line text editor.
2. How does this text relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed in my school or setting?
Write your answer below:
2. How does this text relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed in my school or setting? multi-line text editor.
3. Identify some critical comments on Paul Dix's approach
Write your answer below:
3. Identify some critical comments on Paul Dix's approach multi-line text editor.
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
