# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srsjmrZzfz7fbmc

Working with Teaching Assistants. Terms Duties Research Effective Practices Presented by Dr Juliet Edmonds

LSA, TA, HLTA There are different terms for individuals who work alongside teachers in the classroom supporting children’s learning. In many cases, they have different levels of responsibilities so find out what the terms mean and just what that allows the individual to do in the school you work in.

Deployment Having a LSA/TA in your classroom can be hugely beneficial to children’s learning. Different schools use LSA/TAs in different ways. Some classes always have a LSA/TA, some have one for the core subjects only, some only have LSA/TAs attached to children with specific education needs, some do not have LSA/TA at all. Take a few minute to think about how have you seen LSA/TA deployed in the schools you were in?

How LSA/TA’s are used, examples Supporting an individual child with there learning or physical needs or both. Supporting a group of children. Leading an intervention programme. Revising/re-teaching/pre-teaching a particular concept to a child/ ren . Taking a guided reading session. Supporting whole class learning during independent work.

Relationship with Colleagues Very important Worth maintaining People like to be asked for advice (but at the right time) Remember to try and timetable meetings and avoid Friday after school.

As a Student/New Teacher, LSA/TA’s can sometimes be a bit daunting. They have worked at the school for a long time. They know the children, staff and school routine like the back of their hands. Possibly they have got into a set routine. It can sometimes be a little intimidating if you are new to teaching and the school to know how to work with them. How might we approach this situation?

LSA/TA Effective Practice The following are some thoughts about good practice with LSAs

Research on TA’S Sharma and Salend (2016) found: TAs identified having effective communication and collaboration, role clarification, planning time with supportive teachers, targeted professional learning for them and the teacher with whom they work, and being observed by and receiving feedback from other professionals as critical factors contributing to their efficacy. P124. Fraser and Meadows (2008) Children’s views of Teaching Assistants in primary schools. Children thought they were helpful and were able to delineate between the roles and training of the teacher and TA. Communication, Collaboration and co-construction. (Arthur and Cremin , 2010)

Ask their opinion They will often have a wealth of experience so use it. Ask their advice about a particular child/issue, it will help them feel you value their opinion, and you will learn a lot.

Have a brief written plan for their involvement in the lesson. It doesn’t need to be very long but have a written plan for the LSA/TA involvement. Make sure you share the LO (this empowers them), exactly what activity you want them to do and any assessment criteria you would like them to look out for. Have it written down but also discuss it with them before the lesson if you have time.

Make sure you consult them at the end of the lesson. Remember that they have been working with children/a child and will have formed an understanding of what the child( ren ) understand(s)/know(s) You will need this for your evaluation of the children’s learning so make sure you ask them about it.

Avoid always asking them to work with the LA children It can sometimes be a temptation to always put the LSA/TA with the lower attaining children(some LSAs only like this role). However, you need to work with this group regularly and it can make a refreshing change for the LSA if they work with other groups in the class. Even if a LSA is specifically employed to work with one child, that child will still need to work independently from time to time if at all possible. N.B. It is possible that working with the higher attaining children might be daunting so politely check.

References/Further Reading Arthur and Cremin (2010 ) Learning to Teach in the Primary School. Abingdon: Routledge. Pages 433-437. Fraser, C. and Meadows, S. (2008) Children’s views of Teaching Assistants in primary schools. Education 3-13 . [online]. 36 (4), Routledge, pp.351–363. Sharma, U. and Salend , S.J. (2016) Teaching assistants in inclusive classrooms : A systematic analysis of the international research. The Australian journal of teacher education . [online]. 41 (8), pp.118–134.
