Unit 8 Step 2
Extending Understanding of SEND and Inclusion.
Learning Outcomes
Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts.
Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators.
Reading Activity
The readings are divided into primary age focus ( Burnett and Cremin (2028) chapter 3.5 ) and secondary age focus (Capel et al., 2016 Ch 4). Choose the reading most relevant to you.
Use information from the chapters to make notes and reflect on the following questions:
What have you read?
 Also available here:
Cremin & Burnett
Capel et al.,
Make sure you are logged on in the library
Cremin, T. & Burnett, C. (2018) Learning to Teach in the Primary School. Fourth edition. [Online]. Oxford: Routledge. Ch 3.5
Capel, S ed., (2023) Learning to teach in the secondary school: a companion to school experience (7th edition) Oxon: Routledge.  Chapter 4
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
 IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
1. What are my responsibilities as a teacher of pupils with special educational needs?
Write your answer below:
1. What are my responsibilities as a teacher of pupils with special educational needs? multi-line text editor.
2. What am I able to offer pupils with SEND?
Write your answer below:
2. What am I able to offer pupils with SEND? multi-line text editor.
3. Who is able to support a pupil with SEND and how can we collaborate to ensue pupils are able to access the learning?
Write your answer below:
3. Who is able to support a pupil with SEND and how can we collaborate to ensue pupils are able to access the learning? multi-line text editor.
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
