Get the school permission form, ask your institution to sign and return to Juliet at juliet.edmonds@uwe.ac.uk
School permission form
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfyfGjw6s7pxgZM&attachment=false): left 0 0 0 UWE iPGCEs : Information and agreement s for students and schools Introduction to the programmes The iPGCE (Early Years) and the iPGCE are one-year postgraduate courses from UWE Bristol for teachers, or aspiring teachers in international schools / Kindergarten s, or those with an international focus anywhere in the world . Th ese are online course s with students studying at a distance, supported by UWE tutors, alongside their work. The course is taught and assessed in English. It is very practice- focused, so students need to be teaching during the course. We shar e different theories, models and practice approaches and students will be supported to try out new strategies and evaluate the impact of their teaching for learners in the ir educational setting. We will provide feedback on students’ plans , evaluations and ongoing reflections with reference to the appropriate English Teachers’ Standards and using a range of evidence to support this . The programme will enhance the professional practice and development of the student, and in so doing, support the educational provision of their school/ kindergarten . This course does not lead to QTS , or to the equivalent in any other country because Qualified Teacher Status in England is awarded by the Teaching Regulation Agency on behalf of the government ; i t is not awarded by un iversities. The programme s comprise three modules: Learning and Teaching (which explores theories and practice ) Professional Practice (the application of the student ’s learning to the classroom) Contextual Inquiry (an opportunity to explore an area of interest in more depth) Sixty of the ninety credits on the programme are at master’s level and students can go on to use these as part of our MA Education which can also be studied online . Who is on the course? Students join this course from all over the world. They have a wide range of experience which they bring to the sessions. They will have an opportunity to meet each other online, get to know each and support each other on thei r learning journey, helping to create a community of practitioners . Teaching practice Students need to be able to engage in a teaching role for the duration of the course. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. They will study and discuss a range of teaching and learning approaches. We will support students to try relevant strategies , and to evaluate and reflect on these to develop their practice . A range of evidence from their practice will be valuable to this process . The school/Kindergarten in which the student is working will play an important role in their participation on the iPGCE programme and their subsequent professional development. While the student will be expected to engage with the academic study in their own time, there is significant connection between the learning on the programme and the practical application of that learning to the classroom. The school’s support of the student undertaking the programme will be invaluable, including discussing opportunities to develop their practice, gathering evidence, and reflecting with them on these practice experiences. What happens if the job/placement ends If the student ’s job or placement ends, we will need to have a conversation with the student about next steps. If this comes late in the course this may not impact thei r studies but if it comes earlier , they may need to temporarily suspend their studies whilst they find a new job or placement. Developing and evidencing Professional Practice We will ask students to provide evidence of their teaching and work undertaken in school to inform their self-evaluation, reflection, and discussion with their tutor about their developing practice. Evidence of the student’s practice will be shared with UWE as part of the ir academic portfolio of work. UWE will not retain any rights to any evidence presented once the student has completed the programme. The information student s are likely to gather about their practice may include: Plans and records of teaching activities Evaluations and reflections by the student Feedback from colleagues Examples of pupils’ work completed during the lesson Responses from pupils Photographs Critiques of videos recorded and stored on password protected UWE platforms . When evaluating pupils’ learning, we encourage the student to identify the learning of individual children but ask them to ensure that the identities of individual children are hidden by using initials, or pseudonyms. Similarly, if students photograph and/or video examples of their practice to critique , this can only be done if it is not possible to identify any of the children. We will use Panopto stored on a secure platform. This is to protect the children’s privacy , and these are also the requirements for our campus-based programmes; we maintain the same level of ethical consideration across all our provision. Any photographs or videos can also only be undertaken with the consent of the school/kindergarten as part of this agreement (Template parent permission letters are provided). Study arrangements Much of the course consists of asynchronous content as this allows the maximum flexibility for students to enable them to plan their study time when it most suits them , and to facilitate students working in different time zones. The teaching materials are posted online in advance, and they can work through them in their own time, communicating with each other and tutors via discussion boards or email. There is a recommended schedule for students to follow to help them stay on track and deadlines for work to be submitted. There are also some synchronous opportunities where the lecturer and student / s are together in an online space to give students the opportunity to ask questions in real time and discuss issues . Collaboration between students as a group , and between students and tutors is an important part of the programme as it helps to create a sense of connection between participants and to build a sense of community and shared purpose. Expectations for reading Wide reading during the course is vital and students should ensure they keep up to date with reading tasks . Module overviews will contain information about required reading which should be undertaken in advance of the relevant session every week as many of the activities during sessions will include reference to the se . Module tutors will also identify wider reading which will support a deeper understanding of the module themes. Programme (please delete as appropriate) Level of study iPGCE (Early Years) / iPGCE Masters/ Level 6 Start date of programme enrolled on Month: Year: Name and contact details of School/kindergarten Employment role and status (title, duration of role, full time or part time etc.) Year groups and subject/s you teach Any other relevant information I understand and confirm the following features and expectations of my programme: This is an online Master ’ s-level programme, and I will be studying at a distance. The course is taught and assessed in English. I am responsible for ensuring I have the technology / equipment and internet connectivity needed to access and participate in the programme. I confirm that I meet any safeguarding clearance required by my educational system and/or institution. This course does not lead to QTS in England, or to the equivalent in any other country. I need to ensure that I am able to undertake sufficient time in a teaching role for the duration of the course. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. I understand that if my employment/placement ends during the course, I may need to suspend my studies until I am back in a teaching role. I will liaise with my institution to discuss the programme and to confirm they are able to approve my engagement with the requirements of this programme . I understand that developing my teaching practice is part of the programme and that this will include self-evaluation and the use of evidence , including recordings using IRIS Connect, to suppor t this I will comply with all UWE regulations, policies and procedures. I will check my UWE e-mail and any other communications relating to the programme regularly. Signed: Date: Name: Agreement : Schools/Kindergartens Name of student Name of school/kindergarten Type of school Name of any wider institution/ company the school is part of School postal address , including county School website address School contact details – e-mail and telephone Name of Head Teacher and e-mail address Name of line manager and e-mail address Curriculum/curricula taught in the school Age range covered by the school Year group/s and subjects taught by the student Any other relevant information I understand and confirm the following, on behalf of the educational institution named above: I have discussed the course with the student and can confirm that we are able to approve and support their engagement with the requirements of this programme. T he student meets any safeguarding clearance required by our educational system and/or institution. This course does not lead to QTS in England, or to the equivalent in any other country. As far as this can be anticipated at the start of the course, the student is able to undertake sufficient time in a teaching role for the duration of the programme. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. The student can use information from the school/kindergarten as part of their engagement in and assessment of the programme of study. D eveloping the student’s teaching practice through supported self-evaluation of teaching and learning is part of the programme . Taking photographs or videos for the student to critique could be part of this, but only with the consent of the school/kindergarten . Please see the information on IRIS Connect an anonymised and secure platform for recording teaching that does not show students ’ faces https://help.irisconnect.com/hc/en-gb/articles/4460898535441-Rationale-and-Guidance-to-Provide-to-Users#h_01FWK54121X067APH2VHD2R18P . See IRIS Connect privacy statement at end of this form. Information forms for parents can be supplied. I give permission for the student to take photographs and videos using IRIS Connect of their practice in this sc hool/kindergarten to critique as part of their portfolio of evidence. (This will not include any images where children can be identified.) Yes No Signed (on behalf of the school/kindergarten) : Date: Name: Role: Appendix IRIS Connect Privacy Notice (How we use pupil information) As a School we are deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education to pupils. T o do this, we must also provide the best learning experiences for our teachers. For that reason , we will be using ‘IRIS Connect’, an innovation in teacher professional development to ensure that our teachers have the opportunity to develop to their full potential. The categories of pupil information that we process through IRIS Connect include: Images, audio and video recording Why we collect and use pupil information through IRIS Connect To support pupil learning through professional development of our teachers. Under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the lawful bases we rely on for processing pupil information are: for the purposes of teacher training in accordance with the legal basis of public task Collecting pupil information through IRIS Connect We collect pupil information via IRIS Connect in the form of video and audio recordings. Storing pupil data in IRIS Connect Our training partner, University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE, Bristol) contracts with IRIS Connect to hold pupil data securely until UWE Bristol either instructs the data to be deleted or ends the contract. Who we share IRIS Connect pupil information with UWE, Bristol and selected schools who we collaborate with for professional development. Why we share pupil information through IRIS Connect The use of this system enables our teachers to collaborate around practice and gain feedback from expert teachers in other schools. Requesting access to your personal data Under data protection legislation, parents and pupils have the right to request access to information about them held in IRIS Connect. A full list of the rights for data subjects can be found on the UK government website . To make a request please contact UWE, Bristol’s Data Protection Office dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfyfGjw6s7pxgZM): left 0 0 0 UWE iPGCEs : Information and agreement s for students and schools Introduction to the programmes The iPGCE (Early Years) and the iPGCE are one-year postgraduate courses from UWE Bristol for teachers, or aspiring teachers in international schools / Kindergarten s, or those with an international focus anywhere in the world . Th ese are online course s with students studying at a distance, supported by UWE tutors, alongside their work. The course is taught and assessed in English. It is very practice- focused, so students need to be teaching during the course. We shar e different theories, models and practice approaches and students will be supported to try out new strategies and evaluate the impact of their teaching for learners in the ir educational setting. We will provide feedback on students’ plans , evaluations and ongoing reflections with reference to the appropriate English Teachers’ Standards and using a range of evidence to support this . The programme will enhance the professional practice and development of the student, and in so doing, support the educational provision of their school/ kindergarten . This course does not lead to QTS , or to the equivalent in any other country because Qualified Teacher Status in England is awarded by the Teaching Regulation Agency on behalf of the government ; i t is not awarded by un iversities. The programme s comprise three modules: Learning and Teaching (which explores theories and practice ) Professional Practice (the application of the student ’s learning to the classroom) Contextual Inquiry (an opportunity to explore an area of interest in more depth) Sixty of the ninety credits on the programme are at master’s level and students can go on to use these as part of our MA Education which can also be studied online . Who is on the course? Students join this course from all over the world. They have a wide range of experience which they bring to the sessions. They will have an opportunity to meet each other online, get to know each and support each other on thei r learning journey, helping to create a community of practitioners . Teaching practice Students need to be able to engage in a teaching role for the duration of the course. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. They will study and discuss a range of teaching and learning approaches. We will support students to try relevant strategies , and to evaluate and reflect on these to develop their practice . A range of evidence from their practice will be valuable to this process . The school/Kindergarten in which the student is working will play an important role in their participation on the iPGCE programme and their subsequent professional development. While the student will be expected to engage with the academic study in their own time, there is significant connection between the learning on the programme and the practical application of that learning to the classroom. The school’s support of the student undertaking the programme will be invaluable, including discussing opportunities to develop their practice, gathering evidence, and reflecting with them on these practice experiences. What happens if the job/placement ends If the student ’s job or placement ends, we will need to have a conversation with the student about next steps. If this comes late in the course this may not impact thei r studies but if it comes earlier , they may need to temporarily suspend their studies whilst they find a new job or placement. Developing and evidencing Professional Practice We will ask students to provide evidence of their teaching and work undertaken in school to inform their self-evaluation, reflection, and discussion with their tutor about their developing practice. Evidence of the student’s practice will be shared with UWE as part of the ir academic portfolio of work. UWE will not retain any rights to any evidence presented once the student has completed the programme. The information student s are likely to gather about their practice may include: Plans and records of teaching activities Evaluations and reflections by the student Feedback from colleagues Examples of pupils’ work completed during the lesson Responses from pupils Photographs Critiques of videos recorded and stored on password protected UWE platforms . When evaluating pupils’ learning, we encourage the student to identify the learning of individual children but ask them to ensure that the identities of individual children are hidden by using initials, or pseudonyms. Similarly, if students photograph and/or video examples of their practice to critique , this can only be done if it is not possible to identify any of the children. We will use Panopto stored on a secure platform. This is to protect the children’s privacy , and these are also the requirements for our campus-based programmes; we maintain the same level of ethical consideration across all our provision. Any photographs or videos can also only be undertaken with the consent of the school/kindergarten as part of this agreement (Template parent permission letters are provided). Study arrangements Much of the course consists of asynchronous content as this allows the maximum flexibility for students to enable them to plan their study time when it most suits them , and to facilitate students working in different time zones. The teaching materials are posted online in advance, and they can work through them in their own time, communicating with each other and tutors via discussion boards or email. There is a recommended schedule for students to follow to help them stay on track and deadlines for work to be submitted. There are also some synchronous opportunities where the lecturer and student / s are together in an online space to give students the opportunity to ask questions in real time and discuss issues . Collaboration between students as a group , and between students and tutors is an important part of the programme as it helps to create a sense of connection between participants and to build a sense of community and shared purpose. Expectations for reading Wide reading during the course is vital and students should ensure they keep up to date with reading tasks . Module overviews will contain information about required reading which should be undertaken in advance of the relevant session every week as many of the activities during sessions will include reference to the se . Module tutors will also identify wider reading which will support a deeper understanding of the module themes. Programme (please delete as appropriate) Level of study iPGCE (Early Years) / iPGCE Masters/ Level 6 Start date of programme enrolled on Month: Year: Name and contact details of School/kindergarten Employment role and status (title, duration of role, full time or part time etc.) Year groups and subject/s you teach Any other relevant information I understand and confirm the following features and expectations of my programme: This is an online Master ’ s-level programme, and I will be studying at a distance. The course is taught and assessed in English. I am responsible for ensuring I have the technology / equipment and internet connectivity needed to access and participate in the programme. I confirm that I meet any safeguarding clearance required by my educational system and/or institution. This course does not lead to QTS in England, or to the equivalent in any other country. I need to ensure that I am able to undertake sufficient time in a teaching role for the duration of the course. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. I understand that if my employment/placement ends during the course, I may need to suspend my studies until I am back in a teaching role. I will liaise with my institution to discuss the programme and to confirm they are able to approve my engagement with the requirements of this programme . I understand that developing my teaching practice is part of the programme and that this will include self-evaluation and the use of evidence , including recordings using IRIS Connect, to suppor t this I will comply with all UWE regulations, policies and procedures. I will check my UWE e-mail and any other communications relating to the programme regularly. Signed: Date: Name: Agreement : Schools/Kindergartens Name of student Name of school/kindergarten Type of school Name of any wider institution/ company the school is part of School postal address , including county School website address School contact details – e-mail and telephone Name of Head Teacher and e-mail address Name of line manager and e-mail address Curriculum/curricula taught in the school Age range covered by the school Year group/s and subjects taught by the student Any other relevant information I understand and confirm the following, on behalf of the educational institution named above: I have discussed the course with the student and can confirm that we are able to approve and support their engagement with the requirements of this programme. T he student meets any safeguarding clearance required by our educational system and/or institution. This course does not lead to QTS in England, or to the equivalent in any other country. As far as this can be anticipated at the start of the course, the student is able to undertake sufficient time in a teaching role for the duration of the programme. This is usually at least 60 days of teaching and supporting learning comprising of at least 120 hours of direct teaching to groups of 8 or more learners. The student can use information from the school/kindergarten as part of their engagement in and assessment of the programme of study. D eveloping the student’s teaching practice through supported self-evaluation of teaching and learning is part of the programme . Taking photographs or videos for the student to critique could be part of this, but only with the consent of the school/kindergarten . Please see the information on IRIS Connect an anonymised and secure platform for recording teaching that does not show students ’ faces https://help.irisconnect.com/hc/en-gb/articles/4460898535441-Rationale-and-Guidance-to-Provide-to-Users#h_01FWK54121X067APH2VHD2R18P . See IRIS Connect privacy statement at end of this form. Information forms for parents can be supplied. I give permission for the student to take photographs and videos using IRIS Connect of their practice in this sc hool/kindergarten to critique as part of their portfolio of evidence. (This will not include any images where children can be identified.) Yes No Signed (on behalf of the school/kindergarten) : Date: Name: Role: Appendix IRIS Connect Privacy Notice (How we use pupil information) As a School we are deeply committed to providing the highest quality of education to pupils. T o do this, we must also provide the best learning experiences for our teachers. For that reason , we will be using ‘IRIS Connect’, an innovation in teacher professional development to ensure that our teachers have the opportunity to develop to their full potential. The categories of pupil information that we process through IRIS Connect include: Images, audio and video recording Why we collect and use pupil information through IRIS Connect To support pupil learning through professional development of our teachers. Under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), the lawful bases we rely on for processing pupil information are: for the purposes of teacher training in accordance with the legal basis of public task Collecting pupil information through IRIS Connect We collect pupil information via IRIS Connect in the form of video and audio recordings. Storing pupil data in IRIS Connect Our training partner, University of the West of England, Bristol (UWE, Bristol) contracts with IRIS Connect to hold pupil data securely until UWE Bristol either instructs the data to be deleted or ends the contract. Who we share IRIS Connect pupil information with UWE, Bristol and selected schools who we collaborate with for professional development. Why we share pupil information through IRIS Connect The use of this system enables our teachers to collaborate around practice and gain feedback from expert teachers in other schools. Requesting access to your personal data Under data protection legislation, parents and pupils have the right to request access to information about them held in IRIS Connect. A full list of the rights for data subjects can be found on the UK government website . To make a request please contact UWE, Bristol’s Data Protection Office dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk
