# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfnGmqMZsnhd3Hr&attachment=false

Effective Teaching and Learning Strategies 2 Cognitive load, retrieval, breaking down concepts and practice. Presented by Dr Juliet Edmonds

Effective Teaching and Learning Strategies 2 Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts. Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally and their contexts, recognising their potential implications for learning and teaching. What are the theories of cognitive theories which lies behind the principles of breaking down concepts, modelling, practice and revisiting ?

Cognitive Science (Tom Sherrington)

Response to teacher instruction to draw a table style.visibility style.visibility

Our brains are subjective in interpreting what is communicated style.visibility style.visibility

Cognitive Load Theory- Characteristics of Working Memory It has limited capacity It is temporary Distraction can empty it Information is live and can be manipulated Retrieves information from the Long Term Memory Dual Channel Assumption- visual and auditory

Characteristics of Long Term Memory Thought to have an infinite capacity Organises knowledge and skills into schema Experts have a more organised schema than a novice Memory is reconstructive in nature

Categories of Cognitive Load Intrinsic Load – the inherent difficulty of the topic and the capability of the learner effect this. This load is associated with the core learning taking place. (Lovell, 2020) Extraneous Load – this is the load determined by instructional procedures rather than the intrinsic nature of the information. ( Sweller , 2019) If the combined loads exceed the working memory capacity then learning stops style.visibility ppt_c style.visibility ppt_c style.visibility ppt_c

Sequence of Lessons Demand on the working memory Subject Knowledge Development style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility style.visibility

Think about a time when your working memory was overloaded. What extraneous features of the learning did not help? What features of the learning did help? How did you overcome the overload?

What might this look like? The instability created in Europe by the First World War (1914-18) set the stage for another international conflict—World War II—which broke out two decades later and would prove even more devastating. Rising to power in an economically and politically unstable Germany, Adolf Hitler, leader of the Nazi Party, rearmed the nation and signed strategic treaties with Italy and Japan to further his ambitions of world domination. Hitler’s invasion of Poland in September 1939 drove Great Britain and France to declare war on Germany, marking the beginning of World War II. Don’t have one thing on the PPt and say another

Split attention effect which can reduce unnecessary processing Castro-Alonso, Ayres, &amp; Sweller (2019)

What does this mean for our teaching? Reduce working memory load: Break down concepts into small steps for pupils to master Check for understanding before moving on- questioning, hinge point questions – Dylan Wiliams Reduce the extraneous load e.g. not talk over text/ reduce detail on diagrams e.g. keys and making the environment conducive to learning if possible – noise, heat etc Provide pupils with models that can be committed to long term memory- spend more time on explanation. Model steps and processes- show the children what you are doing and thinking out aloud. Give pupils worked examples as well as blank questions.

What might it look like? Forces Check students understanding of the word force- What do you think a force means? Have vocab on board Give some examples of forces- pushes, pulls, stopping, starting Use a model of a large spring to show the force. Ask students to identify some forces in the playground. Introduce friction as a force, explain, give examples, ask students to think of examples. Get students to try the phone book activity and to explain in pairs what might be going on. Look at hairbrushes stuck together. Draw a model of surfaces interacting on board. Label on picture Check student understanding Give the students a writing frame to plan an investigation to see who has the grippiest shoes Link back to pictures and models/ recap

Retrieval as an Essential Part of Learning Karpicke, J.D. &amp; Grimaldi, P.J. (2012) "Retrieval-Based Learning: A Perspective for Enhancing Meaningful Learning", Educational psychology review, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 401-418.

What does this mean for our teaching? Retrieval Practice Revisiting content in lesson Challenging pupils to actively retrieve information and skills- quizzes, written work, presentations to others, making posters, creating conversations using new vocabulary etc. Revise and retrieve learning at the beginning of each lesson, week and month Spend time allowing pupils to do questions where they have to retrieve knowledge and skills

References and further reading Karpicke, J.D. &amp; Grimaldi, P.J. (2012) "Retrieval-Based Learning: A Perspective for Enhancing Meaningful Learning", Educational psychology review, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 401-418. Lovell, O (2020) Cognitive Load Theory in Action John Catt Sweller , J., van Merriënboer , Jeroen J. G &amp; Paas , F.(2019) "Cognitive Architecture and Instructional Design: 20 Years Later", Educational psychology review, vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 261-292. Cognitive Load Effects https://www.cese.nsw.gov.au/publications-filter/cognitive-load-theory-research-that-teachers-really-need-to-understand https://www.ollielovell.com/book/

Captions are available for this resource This video has been automatically captioned by a machine. We believe this captioning will be more than 75% accurate. To see the captions click on “CC” on the bottom right of the video viewer. You can choose how these captions appear . When refreshing your knowledge you can skip to the relevant section of video or captions using a key word search . Provision of this captioning does not impact on your rights to request additional support or higher accuracy captions via Disability Services. Feedback on the captions should initially be given to the session lead.
