# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srfxwZ4GctMqbpr

Learning and Teaching UTLGXF-30-M/ UTLH44-30-3 Tutors Contents Structure Assignment Contacts

Tutors Dr Juliet Edmonds/ Jo Biddle- Module Leaders You will be assigned a tutor for the module. All of them have primary, secondary and HE experience. Their role is to review your workbooks 3 times and to hold group tutorials when an assessment is imminent. There will also be regular drop ins for overall course issues.

Module Outcomes MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary best practice pedagogical approaches and frameworks, recognising their implications for practice MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners.

Module Content Values and philosophies of education How pupils learn and develop Curricula Behaviour for learning Effective teaching strategies 1 Effective teaching and learning strategies 2 Assessment for learning Pupils’ well being SEND Reflection, evaluating and planning

Structure of Delivery Each Module is presented in 10 Units. Each unit has 5 steps. Each step will involve a different activity. For example: Lectures Readings Reflections Practice based activities Peers sharing / discussion boards Teaching Live discussion All activities are designed to be accessible, stimulating, and relate directly to your development as a teaching professional.

Assessment at Masters Level Assessment A Presentation (25%) Record 20 mins of your class teaching using Panopto. Provide a recorded presentation of yourself critically analysing behaviour management and effective teaching within that recorded session with reference to a wide range of literature and theory. Assessment B Written Assignment 3000 words on: What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies.

Live Sessions and Support We will meet with you for live sessions 3 times focusing on a theme from the modules. There will be two live sessions to cover all time zones. Sessions will be recorded if you can’t attend. Tutors will meet you a small group tutorial ahead of assignment submissions. You can submit a page of your written assignments for feedback from tutors.

Module Leaders: Juliet Edmonds/ Jo Biddle Email: ipgce.pls @uwe.ac.uk
