Unit 10 Step 4 and 5
Pupil Observation into Planning
Learning Outcomes​​​​​​​:
Demonstrate a critical, evidence -based understanding of learner development and how teachers can: assess individual needs, plan effective teaching and support which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners; and assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work.
Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts
Activity
Use the observation of a pupil in your setting to evaluate their learning, plan an activity, deliver that activity and assess their learning.
Planning
Describe a planned activity for the pupil that is based on your observation. Consider the
what the activity will be :
what the pupil might learn from the activity ,
space and resources that you will need,
the timing of the activity, (when it will take place and how long it might go on for)
your role within the activity.
Remember that this does not need to be complex and might involve you encouraging a pupil to carry out an activity. We are looking for you to link your observation to the planning and pedagogy. Your planning does not have to be complicated and should fit within the daily activities of your school.
Assessment
 Did the pupil learn what you expected from your activity?
How do you know this and what evidence are you using? (Further observation? Or what the pupil said? for example)
It doesn’t matter if the pupil learnt what you expected, it is interesting to consider what else they were learning, or if their learning was something unexpected.
Your reflection
What did you learn from this task? Which parts of your planning were most valuable and what might you do differently next time? Which stages of Dewey’s model of reflective practice did you use? When you were teaching which parts of Schon’s reflection in practice did you use? Was it knowledge in action or reflection in action?
We value your honest reflection as it demonstrates how you are adapting and improving your professionalism.
Write some notes on your thinking and place in your assets. You may draw on this in your assignment.
Planning
Planning multi-line text editor.
Assessment
Assessment multi-line text editor.
Your reflection
Your reflection multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
