# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfyH6gwb46nmx4Z

Learning Theories Cognitive learning theories Social learning theories Neuroscience Critiques of theories Presented by Dr Juliet Edmonds Programme Leader Date

Learning Outcomes Have a critical, evidence-based understanding of theories of learner development Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of learners’ lives can influence their learning, behaviours and wellbeing

Pupil Development Cognitive development Language development Physical Development Social and emotional (in Well-being unit 9)

Cognitive Development- Constructivism Jean Piaget (1896 -1980) Staged-approach to learning and development Children go through the same stages sequentially The stages are linked to ages

Piaget’s Stages of Development Each stage lays foundation for the next Everyone goes through the same stages The stages are in the same order The child is an active learner . They have to do it on their own They cannot be told Sensorimotor: Birth to 2 years Preoperational: 2 to 7 years Concrete Operational: 7 to 11 years Formal operational: 11 years +

Critique of Learning Stages Pupil's learning and development age-dependent? All children follow Piaget's defined stages? Flaws in research Western-centric views. Were the stages as a result of western schooling? See Donaldson, 1987 and Sutherland, 2014.

Social Constructivists Lev Vygotsky Soviet Russia 1896-1934* Jerome Bruner USA 1915-2016

Theory: ‘Social Constructivism Learning is enhanced by social interaction between learners. Children respond to stimulus from others. Learners need to be interested in the material New learning can be ‘scaffolded’ or shaped by deliberate exposure to experiences

Vygotsky: Social meaning-making Agreed with Piaget Children construct knowledge through action and experience Active learning But highlighted social and cultural factors Important to development of thinking, meaning-making Creating knowledge and making sense through interactions This learning theory is called social constructivism

Vygotsky: Zone of Proximal Development (ZPD) Represents gap Between what a pupil can accomplish alone And what can accomplish with help Help from a ‘more knowledgeable other’ Play and language hugely important Enabled pupil to enter other worlds Child can do ZPD

Bruner- Social Constructivist Built on Piaget and Vygotsky's work Challenged some of the ideas Introduced scaffolding He disagreed : Process of learning as being strictly sequential Considered stage approach too restrictive He believed: Thinking develops through skill acquisition Represent aspects of experiences in different ways Skills learnt at any time with support

Educational responses to Social Constructivism: Design collaborative learning Facilitate interaction between learners Plan for pair and group work Allow discussion ‘Scaffold’ experiences to encourage new experience in a ‘safe’ way. However, constructivism is A theory not a pedagogy

Scaffolding: Examples Supporting pupils might include:

Neuroscience in Education Connection of synapses when stimulated at the same time e.g. words and images of a horse. Connections can die back if not used and are pruned around 3-5 and in adolescence. Emotions through the chemicals induced by emotions affect the brain affect the storage of memory. We have reward centres that develop at different point in our development which provide incentive for difficult tasks. These finding need caution as they are demonstrated in an MRI scanner not in a classroom. The neuroscience can be used to justify unproven pedagogies such as left brain/right brain / brain gym. Further reading on these see Paul Howard Jones and Uta Frith or Uta Goswami

Take a 10 minute break before continuing. Suggestions: A cup of tea/coffee Walk up and down the road Try standing on one leg for one minute Lie on floor and listen to all the noises you can hear

Language Development- What is language? ‘Phonology’- the particular sound patterns and rules that govern how they are used. ‘ Semantics ’ – the rules that convey meaning. ‘ Syntax ’ – the rules for combining words into sentences. Symbols’ – words/letters are simply symbols that are recognised as sounds. Noam Chomsky American, theoretical linguist – revolutionised the understanding of language learning in the 50s and 60s. Believed that children do not learn language, are not taught it, but naturally acquire it. They have an innate understanding of grammar. Language Acquisition Device (LAD) (Doherty and Hughes, 2009)

Symbolism in written and spoken Language Children find a variety of ways of representing things symbolically (as in pretend play) Our written language and communication system is symbolic. style.visibility ppt_x ppt_y style.visibility ppt_x ppt_y style.visibility ppt_x ppt_y style.visibility ppt_x ppt_y

Physical Development Birth to 2 years are times of rapid physical development. By 6 months birth weight can have doubled, and tripled by 1 year. 2-6 years – physical and cognitive abilities extended, exploring and discovering. 6-11 physical growth slows down. 11-18 -Growth spurts and puberty/ significant brain changes (Doherty and Hughes 2014)

Physical development The three main factors that influence physical development are: Heredity Lifestyle Nutrition (Doherty and Hughes 2014 p190) Reading will cover the environmental factors on development

Recap Learning Outcome: Have a critical, evidence-based understanding of theories of learner development Introducing key theories of learning and development How theories support pedagogical practices Identifying children’s learning and development in practice Introducing critical comment on theories Reading looks at environmental factors affecting development, task to analyse the learning you experience and a reflection

Recap :Learning from the start What Learning is going on? Watch https://www.dailymotion.com/video/x2jtgds What physical / cognitive/social and emotional learning is going on? Which theories could you use to explain the learning?

References Blakemore, S. &amp; Frith, U. 2005, The learning brain: lessons for education, Blackwell, Malden, MA. Doherty J. and Hughes M (2014) Child Development: Theory and Practice Harlow Pearson (e book) Donaldson, M. (1987) Children's minds, Fontana, Lon Howard-Jones, P. (2009) Introducing neuroeducational research: neuroscience, education and the brain from contexts to practice, Routledge, London. Goswami, U. (2019) Cognitive Development and Cognitive Neuroscience, 2nd edn , Taylor and Francis. Sutherland, P.A.A. (2014) Cognitive development today: Piaget and his critics, Sage Publications. Vygotsky, L.S. (1978). Mind and Society : The development of higher mental processes . Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press

Captions are available for this resource This video has been automatically captioned by a machine. We believe this captioning will be more than 75% accurate. To see the captions click on “CC” on the bottom right of the video viewer. You can choose how these captions appear . When refreshing your knowledge you can skip to the relevant section of video or captions using a key word search . Provision of this captioning does not impact on your rights to request additional support or higher accuracy captions via Disability Services. Feedback on the captions should initially be given to the session lead.
