Unit 1 Step 3
Values and Philosophies
Learning Outcomes
Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts.
 Activities
Read the two short readings below and reflect on the questions below. The first reading is about the values and beliefs teachers have when coming to teaching. The second is about the educational theorist Dewey and the link between his values and philosophy on education.
This session will help you clarify your thoughts on your approach to your assignment.
Readings
Also available here Reflective teaching in Schools
Understanding and using educational theories
 Make sure you are logged into library.
Pollard, A. (2019) Reflective teaching in schools, 5th edn, Bloomsbury Academic, London . Pages 7-14
Aubrey, K. & Riley, A. (2020/22) Understanding & using educational theories, 3rd  edn, SAGE, Los Angeles. Ch 1
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
1. How do you define values after reading Pollard and looking at the professional associations lists? Dewey had clear values that informed his thinking but that differ from his philosophies on education.
Write your answer below:
1. How do you define values after reading Pollard and looking at the professional associations lists? Dewey had clear values that informed his thinking but that differ from his philosophies on education. multi-line text editor.
2. What are Dewey's values and how do they differ from his philosophy of education?
Write your answer below:
2. What are Dewey's values and how do they differ from his philosophy of education? multi-line text editor.
3. How far do you think you agree with the views of Dewey on education?
Write your answer below:
3. How far do you think you agree with the views of Dewey on education? multi-line text editor.
4. How does this text relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed? How does my cultural / social background affect the way I read the text?
Write your answer below:
4. How does this text relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed? How does my cultural / social background affect the way I read the text? multi-line text editor.
5. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
5. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
