Unit 2 Step 3
Social, Cultural and Environmental Factors influencing Learning
Learning Objective
Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of learners’ lives can influence their learning, behaviours and wellbeing
Reading Activity
​​​​​
Read page Pollard page 55-59 on social and environmental factors, see below. The reading considers the social, cultural and environmental factors that influence learning. This will inform your presentation and written assignment as well as your practice in future modules.​​​​​​​
There is supplementary reading about Vygotsky and his contribution to learning theory, in Aubrey and Riley  Page 69-74.
What have you read? Direct links (make sure you are signed on in the library pages)
Also available here
 Understanding and using educational theories
 Reflective Teaching in Schools
 Make sure you are logged into library.
Pollard, A. 2019, Reflective teaching in schools, 5th edn, Bloomsbury Academic, London. Pages 55-59
Aubrey, K. (2018) Understanding and using educational theories. 2nd edition. London: SAGE Publications p 68 -74
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
1. What is the purpose of these texts? What are the big ideas? Summarise the key points.
Write your answer below:
1. What is the purpose of these texts? What are the big ideas? Summarise the key points. multi-line text editor.
2. Where do you go from here? What interests you? What do you want to find out more about?
Write your answer below:
2. Where do you go from here? What interests you? What do you want to find out more about? multi-line text editor.
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
