Unit 5 Step 2
How do we Challenge, Explain and Model?
Learning Outcome
Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally and their contexts, recognising their potential implications for learning and teaching.
Reading Activity
Read the following chapters and make notes. You may wish to read the whole book as it is not long and easy to read. Use the reading card below to help you think about what you are reading. This reading will inform your practice, assignments and further modules.
What have you read?
Also available here:
Allison, S. and Tharby, A. (2015) Making Every Lesson Count: Six Principles to Support Great Teaching.
Make sure you are logged onto the library
Allison, S. and Tharby, A. (2015) Making Every Lesson Count: Six Principles to Support Great Teaching. Crown House Publishing.  Chapters on Challenge, Explanation and modelling.
1. How does this text relate to my own experience of modelling, explaining and challenging or the experiences of others I have observed? How does my cultural / social background affect the way I read the text?
Write your answer below:
1. How does this text relate to my own experience of modelling, explaining and challenging or the experiences of others I have observed? How does my cultural / social background affect the way I read the text? multi-line text editor.
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
 IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
2. Where do you go from here? What interests you? What do you want to find out more about?
Write your answer below:
2. Where do you go from here? What interests you? What do you want to find out more about? multi-line text editor.
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
Write your answer below:
3. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
