Assessment B
Assessment title
What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies.
Word limit, not including references or title - 3000 words. Please submit a Word document not a PDF.
Hand in : 27th of May  by 2.00pm 2026 GMT( You may use the 48hr no penalty submission window)
Detailed assessment brief
Watch the video below and come to the online discussion.
PPT slides from video
The mark sheet for masters level and level 6 uses the action domain
Masters level marksheet
Level 6 marksheet
 See the diagram below for key questions to ask yourself about critical analysis. If you are still unsure do the unit on reading and writing critically
Each culture has different expectations and conventions in academic writing, see examples below.
If you are unsure about referencing see the skills study unit on referencing.
Studiosity is a programme that will proof read your work and suggest improvements. This available to you as a UWE student.
Assessment title multi-line text editor.
Guidance on assessment B
How to upload your Assessment
Place holder for student assignment
How  can I check my submission is uploaded and can be seen by my tutor?
Click on Pebble pad icon on top left. Choose Assets. You should be able to see you submission in the assets folder. Check that it says it has been shared if not click 'i' icon and use the drop down menu to share with your tutor.​​​​​​​
Upload new media or choose from your existing assets
Please upload video, audio, image or document file types to this placeholder
Open asset store
Exemplar of a previous student's work given with explicit permission to share.
Exemplar of previous student's work given with explicit permission with mark in 80's
To check  your assessment is visible to your tutor:
Go to your assets, find the document , if it is visible to the tutors it will say so as in the example below (assessment b  essay) with the blue < .
If this is not showing , go to the 'i' icon on the right , circled in red, click and then click 'I want to share' and identify your tutor. If it will still not share this may be because you have exceeded the hand in deadline or there may be a technical issue, contact Siamak.alimi@uwe.ac.uk.
You do not need to write to your tutor to check, the programme leaders will check the submissions at the deadline and get in touch with you if there is an issue.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf6bM7gMsm9nfMc&attachment=false): Education and Child hood aCADEMIC YEAR 202 5 /2 6 Assessment Brief Submission details Module title : Learning and Teaching Module code : UTTGXF-30-M / UTH44-30-3 Assessment title: Assessme n t B Assessment type : Written assignment Assessment weighting: 7 5 % of total module mark Size or length of assessment: 3000 words Assessment Content Limit Policy for the University (sharepoint.com) Module learning outcomes assessed by this task: MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Assessment B What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies. See the video on Pebblepad for further guidance AI Use of AI in assessment: please refer to the UWE categorisation guidance for using Generative AI in assessments . Guidance on Referencing ( inc AI) : Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood a range of sources to evidence your key points. You need to list the references consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for themselves. Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol Submission and feedback dates Submission deadline: Wednesday 11th of February b efore 14:00 GMT eligible for 48 hour late submission window ( no penalty) Submission format: Written assignment in word uploaded to Pebblepad . All submissions should be made via the Pebblepad portal, which will appear on the ass essments tab of the Learners and Teachers module page . A video is supplied to support the uploading and giving permission process. You will receive informal feedback verbally through all teaching sessions – ensure you listen carefully. Each assessment you submit will be returned to you with written feedback and consists of comments made by tutors on students’ assessed work which enables students to understand how they have met the defined assessment criteria and identifying areas for further improvement. The period for providing feedback will not normally exceed 20 working days (excluding University closure days) following the deadline for submission of the assessment concerned. This period may be shorter or longer for some forms of assessment. Where the period is greater than 20 working days, students will be informed of the deadline and the rationale for the extension . Outcomes which have not been confirmed by an examining board shall be considered as unconfirmed. Marks and Feedback due in: February . 20 working days after submission date . N.B. all times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK Marks and Feedback will be provided via: Feedback with take the form of comments on your script (if written ( and a feedback form. This will be sent to you by your tutor. Completing your assessment Guidance on the assignment and exemplars are available on the assessment tab in Pebblepad . What am I required to do on this assessment? Disc uss your own philosophy of education and link this to readings and theorists that are congruent to your own beliefs. Your beliefs should be exemplified by your reported actions in the classroom. . You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, research and other relevant literature. . This written assignment is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. Where should I start? Start by considering what readings and theories have resonated with you during the taught course. Read around them more widley and also look at the suggested ways that authors use the theories to support pedagogy. Consider how an outsider would be able to recognbise those beliefs and philosophies if watching you in your classroom e.g., what do you do that exemplifies that you believe in socialconstruction of knowledge. Discuss some of the the issues that restrict or theories that have not worked for you. It may be due to your teaching context or differing values held by the institution you teach in. What do I need to do to pass? The pass mark for masters level work is 50% and 40% for level 6.There are examples of the m ark sheets on Pebblepad . I recommend you look at them carefully . How do I achieve high marks in this assessment? There is an exemplar of an assignment that achieved a very high mark on P ebblepad . These assignments will be reflective, draw on a range of appropriate literature to provide a range of viewpoints on the themes. They will draw on an extensive range of literature and have a great deal on critical comment on their own practice as well as the literature. There will be a well developed argument throughout and the assignment will make reference to the departments equity and diversity values. How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment? All of the content of the module will be helpful but specifically the units on effective teaching strategies and behaviour management . What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? We will run an assessment Q and A session and small group tutorials to discuss your content. There is also a questions board on Pebblepad and a FAQs page. Try the s pecific UWE library study skills pages i.e. https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link How to give a presentation Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? It is recommended that y ou review all of the relevant materials on Pebblepad . You can also speak to your module leader for advice and guidance. UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link , and both Student Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. For further information, please see the Student study essentials . How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module? Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module. We have recently had a number of students fail their assessments through an inappropriate use of AI. Please use it for rephrasing and doing synopses of articles but remember it makes content up. See academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures Marks and Feedback Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. Assessment Your assessment submission will be marked by a tutor with expertise in your subject discipline. It will be assessed against the following domains: M-Level / Level 6 Criteria: A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. . In line with UWE Bristol’s Assessment Content Limit Policy (formerly the Word Count Policy), w ord count includes all text, including (but not limited to): the main body of text (including headings), all citations (both in and out of brackets), text boxes, tables and graphs, figures and diagrams, quotes, lists. UWE Bristol’s Academic Conduct Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedures (Assessment Offence Policy) is available from the Academic Integrity webpages and requires that you submit work that is entirely your own and reflects your own learning , so it is important to: Ensure you reference all sources used, using the UWE Harvard system and the guidance available on UWE’s Study Skills referencing pages . Refer to peer reviewed primary sources, rather than using AI or secondary sources Avoid copying and pasting any work into this assessment, including your own previous assessments , work from other students or internet sources Develop your own style, argument s and wording, so avoid copying sources and chang ing individual words but keep ing , essentially, the same sentences and/or structures from other sources Never give your work to others who may copy it If an individual assessment, develop your own work and preparation, and do not allow anyone to make amends on your work (including proof-readers, who may highlight issues but not edit the work) . When submitting your work, you will be required to confirm that the work is your own, and text-matching software and other methods are routinely used to check submissions against other submissions to the university and internet sources. Details of what constitutes plagiarism and how to avoid it can be found on UWE’s Study Skills pages about avoiding plagiarism .

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf6bM7gMsm9nfMc): Education and Child hood aCADEMIC YEAR 202 5 /2 6 Assessment Brief Submission details Module title : Learning and Teaching Module code : UTTGXF-30-M / UTH44-30-3 Assessment title: Assessme n t B Assessment type : Written assignment Assessment weighting: 7 5 % of total module mark Size or length of assessment: 3000 words Assessment Content Limit Policy for the University (sharepoint.com) Module learning outcomes assessed by this task: MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Assessment B What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies. See the video on Pebblepad for further guidance AI Use of AI in assessment: please refer to the UWE categorisation guidance for using Generative AI in assessments . Guidance on Referencing ( inc AI) : Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood a range of sources to evidence your key points. You need to list the references consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for themselves. Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol Submission and feedback dates Submission deadline: Wednesday 11th of February b efore 14:00 GMT eligible for 48 hour late submission window ( no penalty) Submission format: Written assignment in word uploaded to Pebblepad . All submissions should be made via the Pebblepad portal, which will appear on the ass essments tab of the Learners and Teachers module page . A video is supplied to support the uploading and giving permission process. You will receive informal feedback verbally through all teaching sessions – ensure you listen carefully. Each assessment you submit will be returned to you with written feedback and consists of comments made by tutors on students’ assessed work which enables students to understand how they have met the defined assessment criteria and identifying areas for further improvement. The period for providing feedback will not normally exceed 20 working days (excluding University closure days) following the deadline for submission of the assessment concerned. This period may be shorter or longer for some forms of assessment. Where the period is greater than 20 working days, students will be informed of the deadline and the rationale for the extension . Outcomes which have not been confirmed by an examining board shall be considered as unconfirmed. Marks and Feedback due in: February . 20 working days after submission date . N.B. all times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK Marks and Feedback will be provided via: Feedback with take the form of comments on your script (if written ( and a feedback form. This will be sent to you by your tutor. Completing your assessment Guidance on the assignment and exemplars are available on the assessment tab in Pebblepad . What am I required to do on this assessment? Disc uss your own philosophy of education and link this to readings and theorists that are congruent to your own beliefs. Your beliefs should be exemplified by your reported actions in the classroom. . You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, research and other relevant literature. . This written assignment is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. Where should I start? Start by considering what readings and theories have resonated with you during the taught course. Read around them more widley and also look at the suggested ways that authors use the theories to support pedagogy. Consider how an outsider would be able to recognbise those beliefs and philosophies if watching you in your classroom e.g., what do you do that exemplifies that you believe in socialconstruction of knowledge. Discuss some of the the issues that restrict or theories that have not worked for you. It may be due to your teaching context or differing values held by the institution you teach in. What do I need to do to pass? The pass mark for masters level work is 50% and 40% for level 6.There are examples of the m ark sheets on Pebblepad . I recommend you look at them carefully . How do I achieve high marks in this assessment? There is an exemplar of an assignment that achieved a very high mark on P ebblepad . These assignments will be reflective, draw on a range of appropriate literature to provide a range of viewpoints on the themes. They will draw on an extensive range of literature and have a great deal on critical comment on their own practice as well as the literature. There will be a well developed argument throughout and the assignment will make reference to the departments equity and diversity values. How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment? All of the content of the module will be helpful but specifically the units on effective teaching strategies and behaviour management . What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? We will run an assessment Q and A session and small group tutorials to discuss your content. There is also a questions board on Pebblepad and a FAQs page. Try the s pecific UWE library study skills pages i.e. https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link How to give a presentation Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? It is recommended that y ou review all of the relevant materials on Pebblepad . You can also speak to your module leader for advice and guidance. UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link , and both Student Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. For further information, please see the Student study essentials . How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module? Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module. We have recently had a number of students fail their assessments through an inappropriate use of AI. Please use it for rephrasing and doing synopses of articles but remember it makes content up. See academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures Marks and Feedback Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. Assessment Your assessment submission will be marked by a tutor with expertise in your subject discipline. It will be assessed against the following domains: M-Level / Level 6 Criteria: A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. . In line with UWE Bristol’s Assessment Content Limit Policy (formerly the Word Count Policy), w ord count includes all text, including (but not limited to): the main body of text (including headings), all citations (both in and out of brackets), text boxes, tables and graphs, figures and diagrams, quotes, lists. UWE Bristol’s Academic Conduct Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedures (Assessment Offence Policy) is available from the Academic Integrity webpages and requires that you submit work that is entirely your own and reflects your own learning , so it is important to: Ensure you reference all sources used, using the UWE Harvard system and the guidance available on UWE’s Study Skills referencing pages . Refer to peer reviewed primary sources, rather than using AI or secondary sources Avoid copying and pasting any work into this assessment, including your own previous assessments , work from other students or internet sources Develop your own style, argument s and wording, so avoid copying sources and chang ing individual words but keep ing , essentially, the same sentences and/or structures from other sources Never give your work to others who may copy it If an individual assessment, develop your own work and preparation, and do not allow anyone to make amends on your work (including proof-readers, who may highlight issues but not edit the work) . When submitting your work, you will be required to confirm that the work is your own, and text-matching software and other methods are routinely used to check submissions against other submissions to the university and internet sources. Details of what constitutes plagiarism and how to avoid it can be found on UWE’s Study Skills pages about avoiding plagiarism .

Linked PPTX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf34dyx8wmkk9yh&attachment=false): Assignment B- Written Assignment Guidance

Assignment B- Written Assignment What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies. Word limit, not including references or title - 3000 words Date is above (48 no penalty window applies)

What are we asking you to do? An assignment is a way of exploring your understanding of the course content and your ability to write critically. This is an open-ended assignment title which allows you to explore your own approaches to teaching and to compare them to the theory on teaching and learning. At masters’ level it is better to keep a narrow focus and look in detail. You can make reference to theory and your own experiences. You can write in the first person as this is about your philosophies. It will have some of your own personal beliefs – you may want to define the difference between beliefs and philosophies. A possible pitfall would be to describe your teaching and or philosophy without reference to the ideas of others or without identifying some of the less desirable aspects of that approach.

What is a Philosophy of Education? Your philosophy of education is what you believe about education and the way children learn.’ (Robertson 2000) How do you think pupils learn? Go to the Padlet in Unit 1. Children are learning before they are born ( Gopnick et al.,1999) They are experiencing colours, sounds and physical sensations. This process continues as they develop as young children as their world becomes wider and more varied. However, if children only learnt from their immediate environment the learning could be limited. This is where language and talk becomes an essential part of a child’s development. Vygotsky (1976) suggested that knowledge is socially constructed …

How do you think Pupils should be Educated? 2. Having stated how you think pupils learn , then explore what the methods of teaching and learning should be. As I believe that talk is a vital part of gaining perceptual understanding in science , I consider that there should be opportunities within the science lesson to discuss the pupils’ understandings. However, as Mercer (2009) suggests, pupils may need to be trained in productive forms of questioning and discussion to experience conceptual challenge. He suggests that pupils should take the roles of questioner, summariser etc. This reflects my experience where I have found groups talking without focus easily drift off task. You can reflect here on aspects of your institution/ culture that are congruent with your beliefs and those that are not. Remember to be professional here, we are not criticising individuals but arguing for approaches and strategies.

What Teaching Strategies Would You Like To Use More Of, And Why? You could explore some of the theories of effective teaching and learning You could explore the pastoral role of the teacher and the holistic development of the pupil You could explore the hidden curriculum related to a philosophy of education through a discussion on behaviour management approaches.

Possible Structure Introduction- define your terms, identify your area of focus. Set your context- where you teach and what. Any other important cultural contextual factors. How you think pupils learn. Identify different aspects of pupils’ learning that are important to you. Possibly link to your values. Link to learning theories e.g. behaviourism, constructivism etc. It is likely to be a mixture of different theories. How do you think pupils should be educated? What kind of approaches and strategies and curricula should be used to educate pupils and why. Reference educational literature to support your ideas and experiences. What could be the drawbacks of such approaches? Use of alternate theoretical viewpoints. This could be a mismatch with your current institution philosophy, resources in schools, parental understanding and priorities etc. Conclude. Link your values, philosophy and pedagogies.

Drawback and features of good assignments. Masters level assignment should contain critical comment e.g., with alternate viewpoints: Both Vygotsky and Dewey rejected didactic models of teaching for children, instead highlighting the importance of play and learning through experience and ones’ environment. Though both authors seem similar in many respects, there are marked difference between their theories, but differences I believe can be balanced carefully in the ELT, CLT multi-cultural classroom. Vygotsky saw the classroom as ‘social organisation… representative of the larger social community’, with social organisation and community as the agent of change for the individual. Education serves to build children into the community and become productive members of the community, with integration of social and cultural goals of importance in social pedagogy. While Dewey also saw the classroom as a social organisation ‘representative of the larger social community’, however it is the child that is the agent of change for social organisation (Glassman 2001, p13). Or through your own experiences: Although Lave and Wenger (1996) describe how more experienced workers influence the practice of the less experienced, in my school there are no specialist in art… Or the sources you use: Bennett was employed by the UK Conservative government to produce this report so it may have a conservative agenda and may not be appropriate to the culture in Thailand.

Note that anything related to time in schools in any and all academic writing for education, must be compiled with attention to due professionalism, academic rigour, and attention to confidentiality. Therefore, please ensure all work is anonymised so that the name of the school, teachers or pupils, or any other distinguishable features are not present in your work or appendices. Confidentiality and Professional Conventions

As this is a single essay, produce it in this way… Front page (student name number, subject essay title,– see example in Handbook). Essay Assignment B Note: No footnotes in either part. References ONE list, in the UWE-Harvard- required format. Appendices* *The short appendices (the contents of which are mentioned in the main body text), might include feedback from, observation form, reflection on, or your professional diary or log (if you keep one), about current school experience. Format for submission

Text should be clear and easy to read. For those looking for a specific style guide, you might choose to use the following: Font; Calibri (body) Size: 11 Line Spacing: 1.15 You should; Leave a single line space (return) in between your paragraphs and not indent the first line of a paragraph. The text should be left aligned and therefore unjustified. Format for submission

Support for Writing Individual tutorial Critical writing unit on Library website Referencing unit on library website Ann Cowling for online writing support at ann.cowling@uwe.ac.uk Send your tutor up to 450 words. Get a friend to read it! Use Studiosity . Questions in online discussion.

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading

Linked PPTX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sf34dyx8wmkk9yh): Assignment B- Written Assignment Guidance

Assignment B- Written Assignment What is your philosophy on education? Discuss your philosophy with reference to literature and to your chosen pedagogies. Word limit, not including references or title - 3000 words Date is above (48 no penalty window applies)

What are we asking you to do? An assignment is a way of exploring your understanding of the course content and your ability to write critically. This is an open-ended assignment title which allows you to explore your own approaches to teaching and to compare them to the theory on teaching and learning. At masters’ level it is better to keep a narrow focus and look in detail. You can make reference to theory and your own experiences. You can write in the first person as this is about your philosophies. It will have some of your own personal beliefs – you may want to define the difference between beliefs and philosophies. A possible pitfall would be to describe your teaching and or philosophy without reference to the ideas of others or without identifying some of the less desirable aspects of that approach.

What is a Philosophy of Education? Your philosophy of education is what you believe about education and the way children learn.’ (Robertson 2000) How do you think pupils learn? Go to the Padlet in Unit 1. Children are learning before they are born ( Gopnick et al.,1999) They are experiencing colours, sounds and physical sensations. This process continues as they develop as young children as their world becomes wider and more varied. However, if children only learnt from their immediate environment the learning could be limited. This is where language and talk becomes an essential part of a child’s development. Vygotsky (1976) suggested that knowledge is socially constructed …

How do you think Pupils should be Educated? 2. Having stated how you think pupils learn , then explore what the methods of teaching and learning should be. As I believe that talk is a vital part of gaining perceptual understanding in science , I consider that there should be opportunities within the science lesson to discuss the pupils’ understandings. However, as Mercer (2009) suggests, pupils may need to be trained in productive forms of questioning and discussion to experience conceptual challenge. He suggests that pupils should take the roles of questioner, summariser etc. This reflects my experience where I have found groups talking without focus easily drift off task. You can reflect here on aspects of your institution/ culture that are congruent with your beliefs and those that are not. Remember to be professional here, we are not criticising individuals but arguing for approaches and strategies.

What Teaching Strategies Would You Like To Use More Of, And Why? You could explore some of the theories of effective teaching and learning You could explore the pastoral role of the teacher and the holistic development of the pupil You could explore the hidden curriculum related to a philosophy of education through a discussion on behaviour management approaches.

Possible Structure Introduction- define your terms, identify your area of focus. Set your context- where you teach and what. Any other important cultural contextual factors. How you think pupils learn. Identify different aspects of pupils’ learning that are important to you. Possibly link to your values. Link to learning theories e.g. behaviourism, constructivism etc. It is likely to be a mixture of different theories. How do you think pupils should be educated? What kind of approaches and strategies and curricula should be used to educate pupils and why. Reference educational literature to support your ideas and experiences. What could be the drawbacks of such approaches? Use of alternate theoretical viewpoints. This could be a mismatch with your current institution philosophy, resources in schools, parental understanding and priorities etc. Conclude. Link your values, philosophy and pedagogies.

Drawback and features of good assignments. Masters level assignment should contain critical comment e.g., with alternate viewpoints: Both Vygotsky and Dewey rejected didactic models of teaching for children, instead highlighting the importance of play and learning through experience and ones’ environment. Though both authors seem similar in many respects, there are marked difference between their theories, but differences I believe can be balanced carefully in the ELT, CLT multi-cultural classroom. Vygotsky saw the classroom as ‘social organisation… representative of the larger social community’, with social organisation and community as the agent of change for the individual. Education serves to build children into the community and become productive members of the community, with integration of social and cultural goals of importance in social pedagogy. While Dewey also saw the classroom as a social organisation ‘representative of the larger social community’, however it is the child that is the agent of change for social organisation (Glassman 2001, p13). Or through your own experiences: Although Lave and Wenger (1996) describe how more experienced workers influence the practice of the less experienced, in my school there are no specialist in art… Or the sources you use: Bennett was employed by the UK Conservative government to produce this report so it may have a conservative agenda and may not be appropriate to the culture in Thailand.

Note that anything related to time in schools in any and all academic writing for education, must be compiled with attention to due professionalism, academic rigour, and attention to confidentiality. Therefore, please ensure all work is anonymised so that the name of the school, teachers or pupils, or any other distinguishable features are not present in your work or appendices. Confidentiality and Professional Conventions

As this is a single essay, produce it in this way… Front page (student name number, subject essay title,– see example in Handbook). Essay Assignment B Note: No footnotes in either part. References ONE list, in the UWE-Harvard- required format. Appendices* *The short appendices (the contents of which are mentioned in the main body text), might include feedback from, observation form, reflection on, or your professional diary or log (if you keep one), about current school experience. Format for submission

Text should be clear and easy to read. For those looking for a specific style guide, you might choose to use the following: Font; Calibri (body) Size: 11 Line Spacing: 1.15 You should; Leave a single line space (return) in between your paragraphs and not indent the first line of a paragraph. The text should be left aligned and therefore unjustified. Format for submission

Support for Writing Individual tutorial Critical writing unit on Library website Referencing unit on library website Ann Cowling for online writing support at ann.cowling@uwe.ac.uk Send your tutor up to 450 words. Get a friend to read it! Use Studiosity . Questions in online discussion.

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srsdftxc6xr4tpw&attachment=false): DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CHILDHOOD Award Route: Post Graduate Certificate in Education International ASSIGNMENT /PRESENTATION FEEDBACK SHEET M LEVEL STUDENT NUMBER STUDENT NAME: MODULE CODE: UTLG X F - 30 -M AGREED RECOMMENDED GRADE: (SUBJECT TO CONFIRMATION OF EXAMINING BOARD) MODULE TITLE: Learning and Teaching Component B Assignment Criteria for Assessment 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A: Conceptual Domain M level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret an d/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically with some relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently. These ideas will form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument which engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some argument apparent . Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success . Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a s ubstantial degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of analysis and/or evaluation is present . Any attempt made to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful. B: Literature Domain M Level The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also good evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions and analysis of the key points. E xamples of critical engagement are apparent , including relevant theory . UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with occasional errors of detail. A range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions of the key points. Some examples of critical engagement may be apparent. There is an identification of relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with frequent errors of detail. Significant irrelevance evident in a narrow range of sources. Sources mainly secondary or non-academic in nature and possibly out-of-date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident . UWE Harvard referencing is poorly applied throughout. F: Values Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value status and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Good identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Some identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Little or no identification and articulation of the student’s own values. Little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study, where relevant. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging reflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this . There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful reflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited. There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Guidance to help you improve your work : Further comments on scrip t Guidance to help you improve your work: Comments on quality of presentation /written skills : FIRST MARKER SIGNATURE : SECOND MARKER : DATE: July 2024 July 2024

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srsdftxc6xr4tpw): DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CHILDHOOD Award Route: Post Graduate Certificate in Education International ASSIGNMENT /PRESENTATION FEEDBACK SHEET M LEVEL STUDENT NUMBER STUDENT NAME: MODULE CODE: UTLG X F - 30 -M AGREED RECOMMENDED GRADE: (SUBJECT TO CONFIRMATION OF EXAMINING BOARD) MODULE TITLE: Learning and Teaching Component B Assignment Criteria for Assessment 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A: Conceptual Domain M level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret an d/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically with some relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently. These ideas will form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument which engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some argument apparent . Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success . Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a s ubstantial degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of analysis and/or evaluation is present . Any attempt made to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful. B: Literature Domain M Level The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also good evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions and analysis of the key points. E xamples of critical engagement are apparent , including relevant theory . UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with occasional errors of detail. A range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions of the key points. Some examples of critical engagement may be apparent. There is an identification of relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with frequent errors of detail. Significant irrelevance evident in a narrow range of sources. Sources mainly secondary or non-academic in nature and possibly out-of-date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident . UWE Harvard referencing is poorly applied throughout. F: Values Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value status and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Good identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Some identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Little or no identification and articulation of the student’s own values. Little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study, where relevant. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging reflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this . There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful reflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited. There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Guidance to help you improve your work : Further comments on scrip t Guidance to help you improve your work: Comments on quality of presentation /written skills : FIRST MARKER SIGNATURE : SECOND MARKER : DATE: July 2024 July 2024

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfgpzk4jM7GkxHZ&attachment=false): Department of Education and Childhood Award Route: Prof Certificate in Education Assignment/Presentation Feedback Sheet : Level 3 Student number : Student name: ( if known ) Module code: Agreed recommended grade: (subject to confirmation of examining board) Module title : Assessment B IPGCE Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Minimal coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is l ittle or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas . A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. C Contextual Domain CL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc ) influencing the area of study. The re is extensive awareness of a full range of the relevant contextual factors. This is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is extensive awareness of an extensive range of relevant contextual factors. There is comprehensive discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a wide range of relevant contextual factors apparent. There is full discussion of how these factors may be significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a range of relevant contextual factors. This is supported by some discussion of how each contextual factor may influence the area of study. There is minimal awareness of some relevant contextual factors. This is supported, to some extent, by a discussion of how some of these may influence the area of study. There is little or no awareness shown of relevant contextual factors. There is little or no reference to how contextual factors may influence an area of study . F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice . There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Strengths of this work, with examples: Specific guidance, with examples, to help you improve your work in future assignments: Comments on quality of academic writing/presentation skills including UWE Harvard referencing: First Marker Second Marker Date Date Student response Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with APT) 1. 2. 3.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfgpzk4jM7GkxHZ): Department of Education and Childhood Award Route: Prof Certificate in Education Assignment/Presentation Feedback Sheet : Level 3 Student number : Student name: ( if known ) Module code: Agreed recommended grade: (subject to confirmation of examining board) Module title : Assessment B IPGCE Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Minimal coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is l ittle or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas . A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. C Contextual Domain CL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc ) influencing the area of study. The re is extensive awareness of a full range of the relevant contextual factors. This is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is extensive awareness of an extensive range of relevant contextual factors. There is comprehensive discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a wide range of relevant contextual factors apparent. There is full discussion of how these factors may be significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a range of relevant contextual factors. This is supported by some discussion of how each contextual factor may influence the area of study. There is minimal awareness of some relevant contextual factors. This is supported, to some extent, by a discussion of how some of these may influence the area of study. There is little or no awareness shown of relevant contextual factors. There is little or no reference to how contextual factors may influence an area of study . F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice . There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Strengths of this work, with examples: Specific guidance, with examples, to help you improve your work in future assignments: Comments on quality of academic writing/presentation skills including UWE Harvard referencing: First Marker Second Marker Date Date Student response Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with APT) 1. 2. 3.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfRjRn4b3f4gdwZ&attachment=false): Gardner developed a theory about “multiple intelligences”, and he supports the idea that every one of us has different types of intelligence (2011). He proposed that there are eight intelligences: Spatial, naturalistic, musical, logical-mathematical, interpersonal, bodily- kinesthetic , and linguistic, intra-personal. To paraphrase , the way in which individuals learn is complex and we all have different interests, needs, strengths and areas for development. Pupils learn in different ways; educators teach in different ways, what is essential is that we must all be flexible and open-minded when trying out new approaches, strategies, and content. My lessons usually provide differentiated learning and a variety of teaching materials which allows for my content to be accessed by anyone. I believe that knowing my pupils has helped me to prepare activities which are suitable for their own developmental stage, personal interests, and cognitive abilities. I believe that understanding learners needs and wants comes down to knowing them as an individual person and therefore building positive relationships with your students is essential. Dix supports this idea and suggests that students genuinely learn more effectively when they have a bond or significant relationship with the teacher (2017). In addition to this, it’s important to constantly reinforce students' creativity and authenticity in expressing themselves with others to showcase their learning in different ways, whether that be through verbal recall or storytelling, artistic creations, or physical performance I believe that every child has the right to express themselves in different way, and we should respect and celebrate their differences. This is possible if I create a culture of respect and togetherness because that genuine cooperation and collaboration will flourish in the classroom. Vygotsky's social constructivism theory (2017) supports the idea that true learning is created through social interaction, and that real learning can only be built through a collaborative process between students, peers, and teachers. Therefore, teachers must work with their students to create engaging lessons and should constantly review their teaching practice based on the ever-changing needs of all individuals in class. The interaction between peers is also essential to how students develop, and this doesn’t always have to be a positive interaction! For example, when pupils are arguing during break time because some are not sharing the ball - I always ask them “What can I do?”, because honestly, what can I do? I just explain to them that they need to find a solution and try to talk thing through to fix the problem. They need to confront problems independently for them to find solutions and be ready to be part of a society when you are going to find a variety of problems that need to be solved by no one but you . This allows them to build on negotiation skills, communication skills, understanding various perspectives… all of which will benefit them back in the classroom. When I see students working together to solve a problem or even just communicating during playtime, I never underestimate what is happening, instead, I always listen and observe any form of expression because in those moments you can understand how the child likes to collaborate and communicate. “ Through careful eavesdropping of student conversations, the teacher comes to understand what learners know, what they partly know and what they do not yet know ” Black, P. &amp; William, D. ( 2004 )

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfRjRn4b3f4gdwZ): Gardner developed a theory about “multiple intelligences”, and he supports the idea that every one of us has different types of intelligence (2011). He proposed that there are eight intelligences: Spatial, naturalistic, musical, logical-mathematical, interpersonal, bodily- kinesthetic , and linguistic, intra-personal. To paraphrase , the way in which individuals learn is complex and we all have different interests, needs, strengths and areas for development. Pupils learn in different ways; educators teach in different ways, what is essential is that we must all be flexible and open-minded when trying out new approaches, strategies, and content. My lessons usually provide differentiated learning and a variety of teaching materials which allows for my content to be accessed by anyone. I believe that knowing my pupils has helped me to prepare activities which are suitable for their own developmental stage, personal interests, and cognitive abilities. I believe that understanding learners needs and wants comes down to knowing them as an individual person and therefore building positive relationships with your students is essential. Dix supports this idea and suggests that students genuinely learn more effectively when they have a bond or significant relationship with the teacher (2017). In addition to this, it’s important to constantly reinforce students' creativity and authenticity in expressing themselves with others to showcase their learning in different ways, whether that be through verbal recall or storytelling, artistic creations, or physical performance I believe that every child has the right to express themselves in different way, and we should respect and celebrate their differences. This is possible if I create a culture of respect and togetherness because that genuine cooperation and collaboration will flourish in the classroom. Vygotsky's social constructivism theory (2017) supports the idea that true learning is created through social interaction, and that real learning can only be built through a collaborative process between students, peers, and teachers. Therefore, teachers must work with their students to create engaging lessons and should constantly review their teaching practice based on the ever-changing needs of all individuals in class. The interaction between peers is also essential to how students develop, and this doesn’t always have to be a positive interaction! For example, when pupils are arguing during break time because some are not sharing the ball - I always ask them “What can I do?”, because honestly, what can I do? I just explain to them that they need to find a solution and try to talk thing through to fix the problem. They need to confront problems independently for them to find solutions and be ready to be part of a society when you are going to find a variety of problems that need to be solved by no one but you . This allows them to build on negotiation skills, communication skills, understanding various perspectives… all of which will benefit them back in the classroom. When I see students working together to solve a problem or even just communicating during playtime, I never underestimate what is happening, instead, I always listen and observe any form of expression because in those moments you can understand how the child likes to collaborate and communicate. “ Through careful eavesdropping of student conversations, the teacher comes to understand what learners know, what they partly know and what they do not yet know ” Black, P. &amp; William, D. ( 2004 )

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srWz3H747W38bhh&attachment=false): Both Vygotsky and Dewey reject ed didactic models of teaching for children, instead highlighting the importance of play and learning through experience and ones’ environment . Though both authors seem similar in many respects, there are marked difference between their theories, but differences I believe can be balanced carefully in the ELT, CLT multi-cultural classroom. Vygotsky saw the classroom as ‘social organisation… representative of the larger social community’, with social organisation and community as the agent of change for the individual. Education serves to build children into the community and become productive members of the community, with integration of social and cultural goals of importance in social pedagogy. While Dewey also saw the classroom as a social organisation ‘representative of the larger social community’, however it is the child that is the agent of change for social organisation (Glassman 2001, p13). While Vygotsky was recognising a more collectivist perspective, Dewey was promoting the individual; I see both of these philosophies reflected in my practice, primarily because I have been educated within an individualistic culture in the UK, but now find myself navigating education in a collectivist culture. I strive to bring out the individual in the classroom, and celebrate difference of all types, while also acknowledging the dominant communist/ socialist ideologies and philosophies that students are being schooled under in their regular/ public schools. These are not ideologies I separate from the classroom , but invite should it be part of relevant discussion.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srWz3H747W38bhh): Both Vygotsky and Dewey reject ed didactic models of teaching for children, instead highlighting the importance of play and learning through experience and ones’ environment . Though both authors seem similar in many respects, there are marked difference between their theories, but differences I believe can be balanced carefully in the ELT, CLT multi-cultural classroom. Vygotsky saw the classroom as ‘social organisation… representative of the larger social community’, with social organisation and community as the agent of change for the individual. Education serves to build children into the community and become productive members of the community, with integration of social and cultural goals of importance in social pedagogy. While Dewey also saw the classroom as a social organisation ‘representative of the larger social community’, however it is the child that is the agent of change for social organisation (Glassman 2001, p13). While Vygotsky was recognising a more collectivist perspective, Dewey was promoting the individual; I see both of these philosophies reflected in my practice, primarily because I have been educated within an individualistic culture in the UK, but now find myself navigating education in a collectivist culture. I strive to bring out the individual in the classroom, and celebrate difference of all types, while also acknowledging the dominant communist/ socialist ideologies and philosophies that students are being schooled under in their regular/ public schools. These are not ideologies I separate from the classroom , but invite should it be part of relevant discussion.
