Assessment A
Presentation- To prepare you for Planning, Researching and Recording your Assessment.
Assessment A (25% of module mark):
Prepare and record a 12-minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following theme:
Behaviour management and /or Effective Teaching strategies.
Your reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature.
A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided using Panopto and your tutors name linked to the file. Please see the section on Recording your teaching in the Teaching drop down.
This presentation is at masters level/ level 6 and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature.
​​​​​​​
Please watch the video and have a look at the mark sheet ( Masters) and mark sheet (Level 6) which is here and in the course materials section of Blackboard
PPT slides here
There is a proforma in Unit 5 to get you starting to think about the content of your presentation.
See the diagram below for key questions to ask yourself about critical analysis. If you are still unsure do the unit on reading and writing critically
Each institution has slightly different referencing conventions. For UWE conventions, see the skills study unit on referencing.
Studiosity is a programme that will proof read your work and suggest improvements. This available to you as a UWE student.
Do not exceed the 12 minutes. We will stop marking at that 12 minute point.
Upload the presentation in the box below and add a link to your recording in the box below.
Please try to only record yourselves with Panopto. Try to focus the recording on yourself. We will remind you to delete the recordings after exam board. If this is a problem with your school please contact me.
The detailed assessment brief is here
Due:   25th of March 14.00 GMT 2026 UK time  (48hr no penalty window can be applied). Note if you use the 48 hour window there will be no IT support.
Video with Assessment Guidance
Updated 28.05.25
Exemplar
This is part of a previous student's presentation. It is not the whole but it may give you some ideas on what is required. The student has given permission for this to be shown.
Place holder for student presentation
Please check the student agreement box below.
 How  can I check my submission is uploaded and can be seen by my tutor?
Click on Pebble pad icon on top left. Choose Assets. You should be able to see you submission in the assets folder. Check that it says it has been shared if not click 'i' icon and use the drop down menu to share with your tutor.
Upload new media or choose from your existing assets
Please upload video, audio, image or document file types to this placeholder
Open asset store
Link to my Teaching Recording
Please write a title for your recording in the box. Then highlight it and attach it to the recording using the paper clip function above. You can make a link from Panopto by choosing the share function.
Instructions on how to record your presentation
There are 2 ways of recording your presentation in video format that we recommend:
Use the online Even Capture tool that UWE provides called Panopto
Follow this link   and log into cloud Panopto
Click on the Create button towards the top of the screen and select Panopto Capture from the menu
Record your presentation after configuring your input devices (Microphone and Camera) using the toolbar on the screen
Once you have stopped recording click the Manage Access buttons that pops up
Click on "Specific people" in the new window that appears and select Anyone wit the link
Copy the link on the Link box in the same window and click on Save changes (This step is very important)
Now, in the box above (in PebblePad) type a title for your presentation, highlight it and use the link tool to put the link that you have copied in Panopto on this page.
You can find more detailed instructions on how to use Panopto Capture here
Note: You can also upload  videos that you have recorded using other tools to Panopto site and make a link to using the instructions above. This is particularly useful if you have a video that is too large to upload to the PebblePad Assets store.
You can also record your presentation in PowerPoint if you prefer. To do this:
Open a presentation in PowerPoint (it can be empty)
Click the Slideshow option on the ribbon at top
Click on Record slideshow
Once you have finished and stopped, close the recording window and go back to the main presentation
You should see the recording at the bottom right corner of the slide. You can resize the box if it's too small
 Now click File/Export and select Create Video (MP4 Format not too high resolution or the file may be too to upload to PebblePad)
Upload the clip to your PebblePad Assets Store
Come back to this page and drop your recording in the box provided above
Remember
If the video file is too large, the surest method to use is the first (Panopto) method as you won't have to upload anything to PebblePad.
And if you wish a copy to keep, you can download it from Panopto
How  can I check my submission is uploaded and can be seen by my tutor?
Click on Pebble pad icon on top left. Choose Assets. You should be able to see you submission in the assets folder.
​​​​​​​Agreement Form.
You need to agree to follow UWE Guidelines on recording. Please check the box below if you have read and will follow the guidelines.
 UWE Guidelines on recording
Please confirm you have read and understood the agreement form
This is a really useful chart to help you ask critical questions in your writing and presentations.
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfgcmjbbZW7wmrr&attachment=false): DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CHILDHOOD Award Route: Post Graduate Certificate in Education International ASSIGNMENT /PRESENTATION FEEDBACK SHEET M LEVEL STUDENT NUMBER: STUDENT NAME: (if known) MODULE CODE: UTLGVR-30-M AGREED RECOMMENDED GRADE: (SUBJECT TO CONFIRMATION OF EXAMINING BOARD) MODULE TITLE: Learning and Teaching An 8 min presentation Identify and discuss a critical incident in your teaching. Discuss how this has informed your understanding of learners and teaching within your setting Criteria for Assessment 80+ 70 -79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A: Conceptual Domain M level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret an d/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically with some relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently. These ideas will form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument which engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some argument apparent . Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success . Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a s ubstantial degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of analysis and/or evaluation is present . Any attempt made to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful. B: Literature Domain M Level The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also good evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions and analysis of the key points. E xamples of critical engagement are apparent , including relevant theory . UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with occasional errors of detail. A range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions of the key points. Some examples of critical engagement may be apparent. There is an identification of relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with frequent errors of detail. Significant irrelevance evident in a narrow range of sources. Sources mainly secondary or non-academic in nature and possibly out-of-date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident . UWE Harvard referencing is poorly applied throughout. F: Values Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Good identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Some identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study . There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Little or no identification and articulation of the student’s own values. Little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study, where relevant. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain M Level : The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging reflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this . There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful reflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited . There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Strengths of this work: Guidance to help you improve your work : Comments on quality of presentation /written skills : FIRST MARKER SIGNATURE : SECOND MARKER : DATE: Student response: Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with Tutor ) 1. 2. 3.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfgcmjbbZW7wmrr): DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND CHILDHOOD Award Route: Post Graduate Certificate in Education International ASSIGNMENT /PRESENTATION FEEDBACK SHEET M LEVEL STUDENT NUMBER: STUDENT NAME: (if known) MODULE CODE: UTLGVR-30-M AGREED RECOMMENDED GRADE: (SUBJECT TO CONFIRMATION OF EXAMINING BOARD) MODULE TITLE: Learning and Teaching An 8 min presentation Identify and discuss a critical incident in your teaching. Discuss how this has informed your understanding of learners and teaching within your setting Criteria for Assessment 80+ 70 -79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A: Conceptual Domain M level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret an d/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically with some relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently. These ideas will form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument which engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some argument apparent . Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success . Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a s ubstantial degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of analysis and/or evaluation is present . Any attempt made to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful. B: Literature Domain M Level The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of relevant literature and primary sources has been utilised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also good evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is used accurately throughout. A wide range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions and analysis of the key points. E xamples of critical engagement are apparent , including relevant theory . UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with occasional errors of detail. A range of appropriate and relevant primary sources has been used in discussions of the key points. Some examples of critical engagement may be apparent. There is an identification of relevant theory. UWE Harvard referencing is generally used accurately , but with frequent errors of detail. Significant irrelevance evident in a narrow range of sources. Sources mainly secondary or non-academic in nature and possibly out-of-date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident . UWE Harvard referencing is poorly applied throughout. F: Values Domain M Level: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Clear identification, reflexive discussion and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. Good identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Some identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study . There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. Little or no identification and articulation of the student’s own values. Little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study, where relevant. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain M Level : The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging reflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this . There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful reflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited . There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Strengths of this work: Guidance to help you improve your work : Comments on quality of presentation /written skills : FIRST MARKER SIGNATURE : SECOND MARKER : DATE: Student response: Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with Tutor ) 1. 2. 3.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sr36mZ8swHntwxW&attachment=false): Department of Education and Childhood Award Route: Assignment/Presentation Feedback Sheet : Level 6 Student number : Student name: (if known) Module code: Agreed recommended grade: (subject to confirmation of examining board) Module title: Learning and Teaching UTL H-44-3 Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Minimal coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is l ittle or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas . A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice . There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Strengths of this work, with examples: Specific guidance, with examples, to help you improve your work in future assignments: Comments on quality of academic writing/presentation skills including UWE Harvard referencing: First Marker Second Marker Date Date Student response Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with APT) 1. 2. 3.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sr36mZ8swHntwxW): Department of Education and Childhood Award Route: Assignment/Presentation Feedback Sheet : Level 6 Student number : Student name: (if known) Module code: Agreed recommended grade: (subject to confirmation of examining board) Module title: Learning and Teaching UTL H-44-3 Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Minimal coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is l ittle or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas . A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice . There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Strengths of this work, with examples: Specific guidance, with examples, to help you improve your work in future assignments: Comments on quality of academic writing/presentation skills including UWE Harvard referencing: First Marker Second Marker Date Date Student response Targets/Actions for future assignments (for discussion with APT) 1. 2. 3.

Linked PPTX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srWngd4xsgmdbzc&attachment=false): Overview What should it sound like What should it look like Researching your presentation Support Assessment A Presentation

Presentation -25% of Module marks Record and upload 20 mins of teaching using Iris Connect and upload to its secure platform. Prepare and record a 12-minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management and /or Effective Teaching strategies. Hand In: 18 th December 2.00 GMT (48 hour no penalty window applies)

What would the presentation sound like? A brief introduction to the content of the lesson. The learning objective of the lesson is also useful. A signposting on what sub-themes you will discuss e.g., if discussing behaviour management perhaps discussing routines in the class, positive feedback and relationships with students. Take each sub-theme and link to an example in your teaching. Relate the theme to the literature on that area e.g., positive feedback to behaviourism literature. Offer a range of viewpoints (not necessarily opposing ) on that sub –theme from a wide range of literature.

What would the presentation sound like? Offer your own critical comment on the theory and how you think it applies to the classroom or not e.g., It is difficult not to talk over Power points, causing cognitive load, as the purpose of the Power points is also to give the students a reference for further private study. You may want to offer an alternate approach e.g., providing a different set of resources for private study

Researching your Presentation Start with the texts you have read for the course Widen your reading- try using the library search and Google Scholar for journal articles relevant to your chosen topics. If they are research articles, read the abstract to see if it relevant to you. If it looks relevant read the first couple of paragraphs and the conclusion. Criticality can also come from being critical of your sources- think when looking at the article whether it is very dated, from a country very different to yours, whether it used a very small sample, if it has a political agenda. This can be briefly mentioned in your presentation. Keep track of what you have read and page numbers of quotes. Make sure you supply a link to your teaching recording.

Reflecting on your own Teaching You may want to conclude the presentation by reflecting on your won teaching.

What will it look like? Don’t put all your words on the slides- try using a few prompts on the slides. There is a temptation to make the slides animated, and colourful- remember you are not assessed on the design. References on the slides only need to be the author and date e.g. Edmonds, 2024). Provide a list of the references you used using UWE Harvard referencing (see library skill website) on your last slide. (12-20) Don’t exceed the time limit. We stop marking at 12 minutes. References don’t have to be part of the 12 minutes.

Support We will have a assessment drop-in for questions. Questions can also be put on the Padlet. Your tutor will meet you 1-1 to discuss the content. Send an outline to your tutor, not your slides, for feedback. Look at the library skills study website for help. There are instructions on recording and uploading your presentation below.

My Teaching Recording Effective Teaching Strategies. Yr. 6 Science lesson on Electricity Mixed ability class of 30. Learning Objective:

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading

Linked PPTX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srWngd4xsgmdbzc): Overview What should it sound like What should it look like Researching your presentation Support Assessment A Presentation

Presentation -25% of Module marks Record and upload 20 mins of teaching using Iris Connect and upload to its secure platform. Prepare and record a 12-minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management and /or Effective Teaching strategies. Hand In: 18 th December 2.00 GMT (48 hour no penalty window applies)

What would the presentation sound like? A brief introduction to the content of the lesson. The learning objective of the lesson is also useful. A signposting on what sub-themes you will discuss e.g., if discussing behaviour management perhaps discussing routines in the class, positive feedback and relationships with students. Take each sub-theme and link to an example in your teaching. Relate the theme to the literature on that area e.g., positive feedback to behaviourism literature. Offer a range of viewpoints (not necessarily opposing ) on that sub –theme from a wide range of literature.

What would the presentation sound like? Offer your own critical comment on the theory and how you think it applies to the classroom or not e.g., It is difficult not to talk over Power points, causing cognitive load, as the purpose of the Power points is also to give the students a reference for further private study. You may want to offer an alternate approach e.g., providing a different set of resources for private study

Researching your Presentation Start with the texts you have read for the course Widen your reading- try using the library search and Google Scholar for journal articles relevant to your chosen topics. If they are research articles, read the abstract to see if it relevant to you. If it looks relevant read the first couple of paragraphs and the conclusion. Criticality can also come from being critical of your sources- think when looking at the article whether it is very dated, from a country very different to yours, whether it used a very small sample, if it has a political agenda. This can be briefly mentioned in your presentation. Keep track of what you have read and page numbers of quotes. Make sure you supply a link to your teaching recording.

Reflecting on your own Teaching You may want to conclude the presentation by reflecting on your won teaching.

What will it look like? Don’t put all your words on the slides- try using a few prompts on the slides. There is a temptation to make the slides animated, and colourful- remember you are not assessed on the design. References on the slides only need to be the author and date e.g. Edmonds, 2024). Provide a list of the references you used using UWE Harvard referencing (see library skill website) on your last slide. (12-20) Don’t exceed the time limit. We stop marking at 12 minutes. References don’t have to be part of the 12 minutes.

Support We will have a assessment drop-in for questions. Questions can also be put on the Padlet. Your tutor will meet you 1-1 to discuss the content. Send an outline to your tutor, not your slides, for feedback. Look at the library skills study website for help. There are instructions on recording and uploading your presentation below.

My Teaching Recording Effective Teaching Strategies. Yr. 6 Science lesson on Electricity Mixed ability class of 30. Learning Objective:

Add references for all content covered in presentation in alphabetical order using UWE Harvard Referencing References Further Reading

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfWmGdhwqm56tfy&attachment=false): Education and Child hood aCADEMIC YEAR 202 5 /2 6 Assessment Brief Submission details Module title : Learning and Teaching Module code : UTTGXF-30-M / UTH44-30-3 Assessment title: Assessmet A presentation Assessment type : Recorded session of teaching and 12 minute presentation with a targeted reflection on aspects of the teaching . Assessment weighting: 25 % of total module mark Size or length of assessment: 20 minute recording of teaching and 12 minute presentation Assessment Content Limit Policy for the University (sharepoint.com) Module learning outcomes assessed by this task: MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Assessment A Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. See the video on Pebblepad for further guidance AI Use of AI in assessment: please refer to the UWE categorisation guidance for using Generative AI in assessments . Guidance on Referencing ( inc AI) : Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood a range of sources to evidence your key points. You need to list the references consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for themselves. Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol Submission and feedback dates Submission deadline: 18 th of December 2025 Before 14:00 GMT eligible for 48 hour late submission window ( no penalty) Submission format: Panopto video or , for presentation, Powerpoint slides with audio. All submissions should be made via the Pebblepad portal, which will appear on the ass essments tab of the Learners and Teachers module page . A video is supplied to support the uploading and giving permission process. You will receive informal feedback verbally through all teaching sessions – ensure you listen carefully. Each assessment you submit will be returned to you with written feedback and consists of comments made by tutors on students’ assessed work which enables students to understand how they have met the defined assessment criteria and identifying areas for further improvement. The period for providing feedback will not normally exceed 20 working days (excluding University closure days) following the deadline for submission of the assessment concerned. This period may be shorter or longer for some forms of assessment. Where the period is greater than 20 working days, students will be informed of the deadline and the rationale for the extension . Outcomes which have not been confirmed by an examining board shall be considered as unconfirmed. Marks and Feedback due in: January. 20 working days after submission date . N.B. all times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK Marks and Feedback will be provided via: Feedback with take the form of comments on your script (if written ( and a feedback form. This will be sent to you by your tutor. Completing your assessment Guidance on the assignment and exemplars are available on the assessment tab in Pebblepad . What am I required to do on this assessment? Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. Make sure you have given your tutor permission to view the video . This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. Where should I start? Start by recording some of your teaching. It can be a normal teaching session. Watch the recording back and think about what went well and what could have been improved. Then focus on the themes above and start to read around those themes. What do I need to do to pass? The pass mark for masters level work is 50% and 40% for level 6.There are examples of the ark sheets on Pebblepad . I recommend you look at them carefully . How do I achieve high marks in this assessment? There is an exemplar of an assignment that achieved a very high mark on P ebblepad . These assignments will be reflective, draw on a range of appropriate literature to provide a range of viewpoints on the themes. They will draw on an extensive range of literature and have a great deal on critical comment on their own practice as well as the literature. There will be a well developed argument throughout and the assignment will make reference to the departments equity and diversity values. How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment? All of the content of the module will be helpful but specifically the units on effective teaching strategies and behaviour management . What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? We will run an assessment Q and A session and small group tutorials to discuss your content. There is also a questions board on Pebblepad and a FAQs page. Try the s pecific UWE library study skills pages i.e. https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link How to give a presentation Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? It is recommended that y ou review all of the relevant materials on Pebblepad . You can also speak to your module leader for advice and guidance. UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link , and both Student Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. For further information, please see the Student study essentials . How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module? Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module. We have recently had a number of students fail their assessments through an inappropriate use of AI. Please use it for rephrasing and doing synopses of articles but remember it makes content up. See academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures Marks and Feedback Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. Assessment Your assessment submission will be marked by a tutor with expertise in your subject discipline. It will be assessed against the following domains: M-Level / Level 6 Criteria: A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. . In line with UWE Bristol’s Assessment Content Limit Policy (formerly the Word Count Policy), w ord count includes all text, including (but not limited to): the main body of text (including headings), all citations (both in and out of brackets), text boxes, tables and graphs, figures and diagrams, quotes, lists. UWE Bristol’s Academic Conduct Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedures (Assessment Offence Policy) is available from the Academic Integrity webpages and requires that you submit work that is entirely your own and reflects your own learning , so it is important to: Ensure you reference all sources used, using the UWE Harvard system and the guidance available on UWE’s Study Skills referencing pages . Refer to peer reviewed primary sources, rather than using AI or secondary sources Avoid copying and pasting any work into this assessment, including your own previous assessments , work from other students or internet sources Develop your own style, argument s and wording, so avoid copying sources and chang ing individual words but keep ing , essentially, the same sentences and/or structures from other sources Never give your work to others who may copy it If an individual assessment, develop your own work and preparation, and do not allow anyone to make amends on your work (including proof-readers, who may highlight issues but not edit the work) . When submitting your work, you will be required to confirm that the work is your own, and text-matching software and other methods are routinely used to check submissions against other submissions to the university and internet sources. Details of what constitutes plagiarism and how to avoid it can be found on UWE’s Study Skills pages about avoiding plagiarism .

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfWmGdhwqm56tfy): Education and Child hood aCADEMIC YEAR 202 5 /2 6 Assessment Brief Submission details Module title : Learning and Teaching Module code : UTTGXF-30-M / UTH44-30-3 Assessment title: Assessmet A presentation Assessment type : Recorded session of teaching and 12 minute presentation with a targeted reflection on aspects of the teaching . Assessment weighting: 25 % of total module mark Size or length of assessment: 20 minute recording of teaching and 12 minute presentation Assessment Content Limit Policy for the University (sharepoint.com) Module learning outcomes assessed by this task: MO1 Articulate a critical engagement with policy and literature relating to a variety of contemporary pedagogical approaches and frameworks, including the English curriculum and their implications for practice. MO2 Evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the implications of these in their roles as educators MO3 Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of students' lives can influence their learning, behaviours and well-being MO4 Demonstrate an understanding of learner development and how teachers can plan and assess effective teaching which promotes high expectations and progress for all learners. Assessment A Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. See the video on Pebblepad for further guidance AI Use of AI in assessment: please refer to the UWE categorisation guidance for using Generative AI in assessments . Guidance on Referencing ( inc AI) : Please note that the aim of referencing is to demonstrate you have read and understood a range of sources to evidence your key points. You need to list the references consistently and in such a way as to ensure the reader can follow up on the sources for themselves. Referencing - Study skills | UWE Bristol Using generative AI at UWE Bristol - Study skills | UWE Bristol Submission and feedback dates Submission deadline: 18 th of December 2025 Before 14:00 GMT eligible for 48 hour late submission window ( no penalty) Submission format: Panopto video or , for presentation, Powerpoint slides with audio. All submissions should be made via the Pebblepad portal, which will appear on the ass essments tab of the Learners and Teachers module page . A video is supplied to support the uploading and giving permission process. You will receive informal feedback verbally through all teaching sessions – ensure you listen carefully. Each assessment you submit will be returned to you with written feedback and consists of comments made by tutors on students’ assessed work which enables students to understand how they have met the defined assessment criteria and identifying areas for further improvement. The period for providing feedback will not normally exceed 20 working days (excluding University closure days) following the deadline for submission of the assessment concerned. This period may be shorter or longer for some forms of assessment. Where the period is greater than 20 working days, students will be informed of the deadline and the rationale for the extension . Outcomes which have not been confirmed by an examining board shall be considered as unconfirmed. Marks and Feedback due in: January. 20 working days after submission date . N.B. all times are 24-hour clock, current local time (at time of submission) in the UK Marks and Feedback will be provided via: Feedback with take the form of comments on your script (if written ( and a feedback form. This will be sent to you by your tutor. Completing your assessment Guidance on the assignment and exemplars are available on the assessment tab in Pebblepad . What am I required to do on this assessment? Reflection on Teaching activity. Record and upload 20 mins of teaching and upload to secure platform (Panopto) . Prepare and record a 12 - minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes: Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies. You r reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature. A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided. Make sure you have given your tutor permission to view the video . This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature. Where should I start? Start by recording some of your teaching. It can be a normal teaching session. Watch the recording back and think about what went well and what could have been improved. Then focus on the themes above and start to read around those themes. What do I need to do to pass? The pass mark for masters level work is 50% and 40% for level 6.There are examples of the ark sheets on Pebblepad . I recommend you look at them carefully . How do I achieve high marks in this assessment? There is an exemplar of an assignment that achieved a very high mark on P ebblepad . These assignments will be reflective, draw on a range of appropriate literature to provide a range of viewpoints on the themes. They will draw on an extensive range of literature and have a great deal on critical comment on their own practice as well as the literature. There will be a well developed argument throughout and the assignment will make reference to the departments equity and diversity values. How does the learning and teaching relate to the assessment? All of the content of the module will be helpful but specifically the units on effective teaching strategies and behaviour management . What additional resources may help me complete this assessment? We will run an assessment Q and A session and small group tutorials to discuss your content. There is also a questions board on Pebblepad and a FAQs page. Try the s pecific UWE library study skills pages i.e. https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/study-skills Critical thinking and writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol Writing - Reading and writing | UWE Bristol consider linking to specific assessment types from this link How to give a presentation Writing feedback - Writing | UWE Bristol Studiosity - Study support | UWE Bristol for quick feedback on your writing What do I do if I am concerned about completing this assessment? It is recommended that y ou review all of the relevant materials on Pebblepad . You can also speak to your module leader for advice and guidance. UWE Bristol offer a range of Assessment Support Options that you can explore through this link , and both Student Support Advisers and Wellbeing Support are available. For further information, please see the Student study essentials . How do I avoid an Assessment Offence on this module? Use the support above if you feel unable to submit your own work for this module. We have recently had a number of students fail their assessments through an inappropriate use of AI. Please use it for rephrasing and doing synopses of articles but remember it makes content up. See academic-conduct-policy-and-academic-misconduct-procedures Marks and Feedback Your assessment will be marked according to the following marking criteria. Assessment Your assessment submission will be marked by a tutor with expertise in your subject discipline. It will be assessed against the following domains: M-Level / Level 6 Criteria: A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. You can use these to evaluate your own work before you submit. . In line with UWE Bristol’s Assessment Content Limit Policy (formerly the Word Count Policy), w ord count includes all text, including (but not limited to): the main body of text (including headings), all citations (both in and out of brackets), text boxes, tables and graphs, figures and diagrams, quotes, lists. UWE Bristol’s Academic Conduct Policy and Academic Misconduct Procedures (Assessment Offence Policy) is available from the Academic Integrity webpages and requires that you submit work that is entirely your own and reflects your own learning , so it is important to: Ensure you reference all sources used, using the UWE Harvard system and the guidance available on UWE’s Study Skills referencing pages . Refer to peer reviewed primary sources, rather than using AI or secondary sources Avoid copying and pasting any work into this assessment, including your own previous assessments , work from other students or internet sources Develop your own style, argument s and wording, so avoid copying sources and chang ing individual words but keep ing , essentially, the same sentences and/or structures from other sources Never give your work to others who may copy it If an individual assessment, develop your own work and preparation, and do not allow anyone to make amends on your work (including proof-readers, who may highlight issues but not edit the work) . When submitting your work, you will be required to confirm that the work is your own, and text-matching software and other methods are routinely used to check submissions against other submissions to the university and internet sources. Details of what constitutes plagiarism and how to avoid it can be found on UWE’s Study Skills pages about avoiding plagiarism .

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfrpk5qM6fzkMHr&attachment=false): UWE Student s Agreement for using Panopto to Record Practice What is Panopto? As part of our student development process, we use Panopto software to enable you to securely record parts of your professional practice . The recordings are stored in a secure cloud environment which you may access at any time during the course. You will share the recordings with UWE tutors to help support your learning and development. You can use it : To f ocus one element of your practice following an agreed focus (e.g. EYFS ) ; To r ecord a whole or part of a session where you want to demonstrate your progress , skills, knowledge , and understanding ; If you have a particular problem which you want to share and gather feedback and/or discussion on that particular concern . All recordings are for your professional development only. The videos are only to be shared as agreed with UWE. This means that only your university tutor will ever have need of viewing your videos, or ( on occasion ) with your agreement with other students in your group to demonstrate good practice. Before using Panopto : In order to comply with GDPR and other data processing regulations please familarise yourself with the Panopto Authorised User Privacy Policy . Data protection and safeguarding: Before you can use Panopto to record your practice , you must have gained perm i ssion from the organisation where you are placed . Whilst the recording s you make will be focused on your practice, the children may/will appear in the video, so it is important to gain consent from parents/carers. If children will be in your recording, then you must also ensure that you know that you have permission from the parents/carers. You can c heck whether the organisations where you are practicing if they have already asked for permission from parents to record their child for the purposes of professional development. We have a standard letter you can use to send to parents telling them about Panopto and asking for permission. When you are ready to record make sure to consider if there is anyone in the class who cannot be recorded. Please ask the school for a register of students who are not able to be recorded and check each time you use Panopto that they are not in your session . If permission is not granted you cannot film that child in your class. The child/ children will have to be positioned out of camera shot. If you are unsure of how to position your camera to exclude the child/ children, ensure you conduct a test recording ahead of your session. You can contact our technical team if you would like support with this: edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Be mindful that audio data can also be considered personal data so consider if their voice has been recorded and make sure not to use their name/full name. Have agreed prior to recording with your mentor and/or university tutor the purpose of the recording as part of your professional development and learning development to ensure that all uploaded content is appropriate and aligned with the purpose. If in doubt, please ask your university tuto r or Programme Leader for advice or check with UWE’s Data Protection Officer: dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk . Alternatively, for any concerns or questions, please contact edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Remember the team are there to support and guide you. Equipment and Technical Requirements Mobile phones are the most common device used to make recordings. The Panopto mobile App works with both iOS and Android phones. This guide provides more information on compatibility: How to Use the Panopto Mobile App If you are not able to record on a mobile device, there are other option s available. Please discuss them with the Programme Leader and edutech@uwe.ac.uk S afety Before Recording: We always recommend you have a trial run , without the children present , so that you can get comfortable with recording yourself and identify potential hazards. Make sure recording equipment is positioned so it is visible, safely located, and unlikely to record data which is not for the purpose you are using the system, or which is not required. Make sure the recording equipment is safely positioned and is not a trip hazard. Practice First It is a good idea to become familiar with Panopto before recording your practice . You may choose to set up your phone/camera in a quiet room and use it to simply record yourself doing a normal activity, such as making a cup of tea. Doing this and viewing it back gets you used to the idea of being on camera. Alternatively, set up as you would in your classroom, but just record yourself setting up or clearing up at the end of the day. Get used to moving around the room knowing the camera is recording, but without the added pressure of teaching. You will quickly see how easy it is to forget it is there at all! Sharing with your video : All recordings are automatically uploaded to your online Panopto account . https://uwe.cloud.panopto.eu/ You will access Panopto wit h your main UWE account details. If asked, s elect “Blackboard Ultra LTI” to log-in. You may use any of the tools available to you in Panopto to review, comment , and analyse your recording . Once ready , you will share it with your tutor by adding ipg ceEY@uwe.ac.uk from the Share section of the Settings menu. At the end of the academic year all recordings will be deleted, unless we seek permission to use them for future trainee development So, where do you go for support: Reach out to the EduTech Team: Remember, we are here for you. You can reach out at any time via email using edutech@uwe.ac.uk Remember also, you have 24-hour access to IT Services who can be reached using itonline@uwe.ac.uk or via +44 (0)117 32 83612. Your university tutor and Programme Leader are always there to support you. Handbook and UWE Policy Remember you are working with children, and y ou must always conduct yourself in a professional manner representative of your workplace and UWE . If you are unsure about anything, you should discuss the issue with your university tutor. Any breach of data rules as outlined above will be subject to the same disciplinary procedures as outlined in the practice handbook . These are also outlined in the UWE University Professional Suitability and Student Conduct Policies. Please confirm you have read and understood the above Name: Date: Once you have agreed to this form, please send it through to your tutor.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfrpk5qM6fzkMHr): UWE Student s Agreement for using Panopto to Record Practice What is Panopto? As part of our student development process, we use Panopto software to enable you to securely record parts of your professional practice . The recordings are stored in a secure cloud environment which you may access at any time during the course. You will share the recordings with UWE tutors to help support your learning and development. You can use it : To f ocus one element of your practice following an agreed focus (e.g. EYFS ) ; To r ecord a whole or part of a session where you want to demonstrate your progress , skills, knowledge , and understanding ; If you have a particular problem which you want to share and gather feedback and/or discussion on that particular concern . All recordings are for your professional development only. The videos are only to be shared as agreed with UWE. This means that only your university tutor will ever have need of viewing your videos, or ( on occasion ) with your agreement with other students in your group to demonstrate good practice. Before using Panopto : In order to comply with GDPR and other data processing regulations please familarise yourself with the Panopto Authorised User Privacy Policy . Data protection and safeguarding: Before you can use Panopto to record your practice , you must have gained perm i ssion from the organisation where you are placed . Whilst the recording s you make will be focused on your practice, the children may/will appear in the video, so it is important to gain consent from parents/carers. If children will be in your recording, then you must also ensure that you know that you have permission from the parents/carers. You can c heck whether the organisations where you are practicing if they have already asked for permission from parents to record their child for the purposes of professional development. We have a standard letter you can use to send to parents telling them about Panopto and asking for permission. When you are ready to record make sure to consider if there is anyone in the class who cannot be recorded. Please ask the school for a register of students who are not able to be recorded and check each time you use Panopto that they are not in your session . If permission is not granted you cannot film that child in your class. The child/ children will have to be positioned out of camera shot. If you are unsure of how to position your camera to exclude the child/ children, ensure you conduct a test recording ahead of your session. You can contact our technical team if you would like support with this: edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Be mindful that audio data can also be considered personal data so consider if their voice has been recorded and make sure not to use their name/full name. Have agreed prior to recording with your mentor and/or university tutor the purpose of the recording as part of your professional development and learning development to ensure that all uploaded content is appropriate and aligned with the purpose. If in doubt, please ask your university tuto r or Programme Leader for advice or check with UWE’s Data Protection Officer: dataprotection@uwe.ac.uk . Alternatively, for any concerns or questions, please contact edutech@uwe.ac.uk . Remember the team are there to support and guide you. Equipment and Technical Requirements Mobile phones are the most common device used to make recordings. The Panopto mobile App works with both iOS and Android phones. This guide provides more information on compatibility: How to Use the Panopto Mobile App If you are not able to record on a mobile device, there are other option s available. Please discuss them with the Programme Leader and edutech@uwe.ac.uk S afety Before Recording: We always recommend you have a trial run , without the children present , so that you can get comfortable with recording yourself and identify potential hazards. Make sure recording equipment is positioned so it is visible, safely located, and unlikely to record data which is not for the purpose you are using the system, or which is not required. Make sure the recording equipment is safely positioned and is not a trip hazard. Practice First It is a good idea to become familiar with Panopto before recording your practice . You may choose to set up your phone/camera in a quiet room and use it to simply record yourself doing a normal activity, such as making a cup of tea. Doing this and viewing it back gets you used to the idea of being on camera. Alternatively, set up as you would in your classroom, but just record yourself setting up or clearing up at the end of the day. Get used to moving around the room knowing the camera is recording, but without the added pressure of teaching. You will quickly see how easy it is to forget it is there at all! Sharing with your video : All recordings are automatically uploaded to your online Panopto account . https://uwe.cloud.panopto.eu/ You will access Panopto wit h your main UWE account details. If asked, s elect “Blackboard Ultra LTI” to log-in. You may use any of the tools available to you in Panopto to review, comment , and analyse your recording . Once ready , you will share it with your tutor by adding ipg ceEY@uwe.ac.uk from the Share section of the Settings menu. At the end of the academic year all recordings will be deleted, unless we seek permission to use them for future trainee development So, where do you go for support: Reach out to the EduTech Team: Remember, we are here for you. You can reach out at any time via email using edutech@uwe.ac.uk Remember also, you have 24-hour access to IT Services who can be reached using itonline@uwe.ac.uk or via +44 (0)117 32 83612. Your university tutor and Programme Leader are always there to support you. Handbook and UWE Policy Remember you are working with children, and y ou must always conduct yourself in a professional manner representative of your workplace and UWE . If you are unsure about anything, you should discuss the issue with your university tutor. Any breach of data rules as outlined above will be subject to the same disciplinary procedures as outlined in the practice handbook . These are also outlined in the UWE University Professional Suitability and Student Conduct Policies. Please confirm you have read and understood the above Name: Date: Once you have agreed to this form, please send it through to your tutor.
