# https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59sfhxGj5g99twHsr

UWE Bristol Mentor /Tutor Lesson Observation F orm This form is to be used for mentor or tutor observation. The observations recorded are to be shared with the trainee teacher. IQTS standards. TS1: Set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils TS2: Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils TS3: Demonstrate good subject and curriculum knowledge TS4: Plan and teach well-structured lessons TS5: Adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils TS6: Make accurate and productive use of assessment TS7: Manage behaviour effectively to ensure a good and safe learning environment TS8: Fulfil wider professional responsibilities Trainee Date School Group profile Has the trainee provided a detailed lesson plan prior to observ ed lesson : Learning objectives: F ocus of the lesson : (from targets) P lace in a sequence of lessons : Mentor observed f eedback (including reference to previous targets where appropriate) Teachers’ Standards observed OUTCOMES TO COMPLETE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION WITH MENTOR. Agreed Strengths Agreed Areas for Improvement Signed (Trainee) Signed (Observer) 7856220 -372110 0 0 UWE ITE Lesson Plan Template 20 22 Date: Year group/class: No. of students: Duration: Time: Topic: Home Learning / Face-to-Face Learning (Delete as appropriate) Whole-Class / Group Study / One-to-One (Delete as appropriate) Learning partners / TA support Which of your SMART targets are you addressing with this lesson? Prior knowledge/misconceptions Literacy (for example disciplinary literacy / Key terms) Curriculum Links (NC/ Assessment) Learning objectives What is the intended learning? -186690 38100 0 0 Success criteria How will pupils/students know if they have met the learning objective? Or what do the pupils/students have to do to achieve success. -196215 59055 0 0 Assessment strategies How will you find out what pupils/students have learnt? Timings ( Intended ) Learning activities ( Linking back to the LO, Success Criteria, What the Teacher input is, what is the learner doing? Signposting Independent Activities) Adaptive Teaching (Holistic approach- how will you ensure ALL students are able to access learning?) Resources (Physical or online) Add additional rows as required Evaluation of pupils’/students’ learning. What progress did pupils make against Learning O bjectives and Success criteria ? Include any relevant aspects of literacy, numeracy, digital and thinking skills . Refer to groups of pupils/students and/or individuals (by initials) Evaluation of your own Teaching What went well? Why? Even better if… Why? Where next? Targets for pupils’ /students’ learning What key actions will you take?
