Unit 5¬ÝStep 5
Assignment Guidance
Learning Outcomes‚Äã‚Äã‚Äã‚Äã‚Äã‚Äã‚Äã
Articulate a critical engagement with literature relating to a variety of contemporary, best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally and their contexts, recognising their potential implications for learning and teaching.
Activities
In this step we get you to reflect on your learning and also to start to focus your thinking on the assignment. Here is a reminder of the assignment:
'Assessment A
Reflection on Teaching activity.
Record and upload 20 mins of teaching using Panopto and upload . Prepare and record a 12-minute presentation reflecting on your teaching with reference to one or both of the following themes:
Behaviour management/ Effective Teaching strategies.
Your reflections should make links to readings on learning theories, behaviour management theories and other relevant literature.
A link to your recorded teaching session should be provided.
This presentation is at masters level and should include critical analysis of your own actions and theories with a range of alternate viewpoints from literature.'
2. Reflect on your learning in this unit in your presentation. Which effective learning strategies/behaviour management do you use in your recording and what will you be drawing on in the future?
3. Every institution has a slightly different¬Ýway of referencing the work of others. UWE uses UWE Harvard.
Library guide to referencing
4. This module is assessed at masters level or level 6 and you will be expected to make critical comment and to provide a range of alternate viewpoints. For support on this see
The library guidance to critical writing.
5. Some parts¬Ýof a previous presentation is available on the assessment A tab. We have permission from the student to share this will you. The student has drawn on theory and is beginning¬Ýto think critically. She was asked to provide a wider range of alternate viewpoints and to use more of her reading in the references in her feedback.'
To help you start to think about the content of your presentation, answer these questions: Identify an aspect of your practice that occurred in your recording of your teaching. You can use this recording for your assessment.
Choose between behaviour management and effective teaching strategies. What was your intention.
To help you start to think about the content of your presentation, answer these questions: Identify an aspect of your practice that occurred in your recording of your teaching. You can use this recording for your assessment. multi-line text editor.
Word count: 0
What was occurring and what were the catalysts/actions?
What was occurring and what were the catalysts/actions? multi-line text editor.
How does it relate to your understanding of themes covered so far? E.g. environment, child development, stage of development, learning theory, school setting, cultural values, curriculum etc.
How does it relate to your understanding of themes covered so far? E.g. environment, child development, stage of development, learning theory, school setting, cultural values, curriculum etc. multi-line text editor.
Write 300 words about an aspect of your teaching with reference to literature and some critical analysis, see chart below to guide on on critical writing. You should be addressing some of the evaluation questions on the chart. Your tutor will read this and give you some feedback on your writing at masters level. This could be part of your presentation script.
Write 300 words about an aspect of your teaching with reference to literature and some critical analysis, see chart below to guide on on critical writing. You should be addressing some of the evaluation questions on the chart. Your tutor will read this and give you some feedback on your writing at masters level. This could be part of your presentation script. multi-line text editor.
Online resources
UWE Library: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/library/
Study support: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills.aspx
Harvard Referencing: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing.aspx
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
