Unit 9 Step 2
Pastoral Role of Teacher
Learning Outcomes
Critically explore a range of philosophies of education and evidence of the potential impact of these on educational provision and the experiences of learners in different contexts
Evidence a critical understanding of the ways in which the policy, cultural and social contexts of education and of learners’ lives can influence their learning, behaviours and wellbeing
Reading Activity
​​​​​​​
Read the two case studies. One is Noel Purdy’s Pastoral Care 11-16 below. The second is an interview with staff from a school in Malaysia. Reflect and make notes on the questions below.
1. Purdy, Noel (2013) Pastoral Care 11-16, Bloomsbury Academic, London.
2. Cowie et al (2022) A Strategic approach to well being in an International School Community. ICS May 2022
Readings:
Available here:
Cowie et al (2022) article.
Cowie et al (2022) A strategic approach to wellbeing within an international school community. ISC magazine May 24th 2022.
Purdy (2013) Below
+ Add...
1. How important do you think positive relationships are to effective pastoral care?
Write your answer below:
1. How important do you think positive relationships are to effective pastoral care? multi-line text editor.
2. Do you agree that the curriculum and pastoral care should be interdependent?
Write your answer below:
2. Do you agree that the curriculum and pastoral care should be interdependent? multi-line text editor.
3. How does these texts relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed? How does the second reading resonate or not with my own setting's approach to student well being?
Write your answer below:
3. How does these texts relate to my own experience or the experiences of others I have observed? How does the second reading resonate or not with my own setting's approach to student well being? multi-line text editor.
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration.
4. Other readings, references, notes and thoughts for future consideration. multi-line text editor.
You can locate the readings on the course reading list:
IPGCE Reading List
To quote an author’s words, refer to UWE Bristol Harvard Referencing Guidance
https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing/uwebristolharvard.aspx
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress
