# https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/1081356/iQTS_Teachers__standards_June_2022_update.pdf

iQTS Teachers’ Standards Guidance for iQTS trainees, iQTS providers and school leaders June 2022 -- 1 of 16 -- 2 Contents Introduction to international qualified teacher status (iQTS) 3 Who is this guidance for? 3 Expiry or review date 3 Learn more about iQTS 3 Contact 4 Introduction and interpretation 5 Presentation of the standards 6 Progression and professional development 6 Note on terminology used/glossary 7 iQTS Teachers’ Standards 8 Preamble 8 Part one: Teaching 9 Part two: Personal and professional conduct 14 Notes 15 -- 2 of 16 -- 3 Introduction to international qualified teacher status (iQTS) iQTS is a UK government-backed international teaching qualification which will be recognised by the Department for Education (DfE) as equivalent to English qualified teacher status (QTS), subject to the will of Parliament. It will be delivered by accredited English initial teacher training (ITT) providers to trainees all over the world. The aims of iQTS are to: ● make high quality training accessible around the world, allow trainees to benefit from evidence-based ITT, and allow schools to develop and nurture their local talent ● increase the global pool of highly qualified, capable teachers and support teaching as a global profession ● contribute towards children all over the world benefitting from having excellent teachers in the classroom ● provide opportunities for accredited English ITT providers to expand into the growing international teacher training market iQTS is built on evidence-based English methods and standards of teacher training, with contextualisation for the wide variety of settings trainees may be in. Who is this guidance for? This document sets out the Teachers' Standards for iQTS and should be read by iQTS trainees, providers, mentors and school leaders. These standards will be used during the iQTS pilot year and may be subject to change, following the conclusion of the pilot in 2023. The iQTS Teachers' Standards define the minimum level of practice expected by trainees and teachers for the award of iQTS. They are used to assess all trainees working towards iQTS, and adhere to the English Teachers' Standards, with additional guidance for application in international contexts. Expiry or review date These standards will apply until further notice. They will be reviewed during the pilot year. Learn more about iQTS Further detailed information about iQTS can be found in the following documents: -- 3 of 16 -- 4 ● iQTS policy paper, ● iQTS criteria and supporting advice for providers ● iQTS the core content framework ● Approvals process for iQTS providers Contact ● If you have any questions, or would like to give us some feedback, we want to hear from you. You can contact us at iqts.policy@education.gov.uk. -- 4 of 16 -- 5 Introduction and interpretation The iQTS Teachers' Standards apply to all trainees working towards iQTS. This document is designed to help iQTS teacher training providers and trainees implement the standards effectively, in a range of international settings. The standards are closely aligned to the Teachers' Standards published by the Secretary of State for Education in England. This document is designed to help iQTS teacher training providers and trainees implement the standards effectively, in a range of international settings. Guidance notes have been added to some standards where necessary to help trainees meet the standards in different contexts. The Department for Education has designed iQTS to be equivalent to QTS. DfE intends to bring forward regulations to allow holders of iQTS to be awarded QTS. Subject to the will of Parliament, DfE will automatically award QTS to those who successfully complete the iQTS qualification with an approved provider. The standards define the minimum level of practice expected of trainees and teachers from the point of being awarded iQTS. The standards need to be applied as appropriate to the role and context within which a trainee or teacher is practising. iQTS providers should assess trainees against the standards in a way that is consistent with what could reasonably be expected of a trainee teacher prior to the award of iQTS. Providers need to ensure that their programmes are designed and delivered in such a way as to allow all trainees to meet these standards, as set out in the Secretary of State’s iQTS criteria, with due regard for the trainee’s local context. Subject to amending regulations to provide that iQTS holders will be automatically awarded QTS, if an iQTS holder wishes to teach in a maintained school or non- maintained special school in England, they will need to complete an induction period in order to work in a relevant school (see Note 1). They will be able to complete their induction either in a relevant school in England (see Note 2) or a DfE-accredited British School Overseas (BSO). During their induction, they will be assessed against English Teachers' Standards. -- 5 of 16 -- 6 Presentation of the standards This document is presented in three parts, which together constitute the iQTS Teachers' Standards: the Preamble, Part One and Part Two. The Preamble summarises the values and behaviour that all iQTS trainees must demonstrate. Part One comprises the Standards for teaching; Part Two comprises the Standards for personal and professional conduct. In order to meet the standards, a trainee or teacher will need to demonstrate that their practice is consistent with the definition set out in the Preamble, and that they have met the standards in both Part One and Part Two of this document. The standards are presented as separate headings, numbered from 1 to 8 in Part One, each of which is accompanied by a number of bulleted subheadings. The bullets, which are an integral part of the standards, are designed to amplify the scope of each heading. The bulleted subheadings should not be interpreted as separate standards in their own right, but should be used by those assessing trainees and teachers to track progress against the standard, to determine areas where additional development might need to be observed, or to identify areas where a trainee or teacher is already demonstrating excellent practice relevant to that standard. For iQTS, the notes for international use should not be interpreted as separate standards in their own right, but should be used to clarify areas where additional support and guidance may be required for trainees in different international settings. Progression and professional development The standards have been designed to set out a basic framework within which all teachers should operate from the point of initial qualification. Appropriate self- evaluation, reflection and professional development activity is critical to improving teachers’ practice at all career stages. The standards set out clearly the key areas in which a teacher should be able to assess his or her own practice, and receive feedback from colleagues. As their careers progress, teachers will be expected to extend the depth and breadth of knowledge, skill and understanding that they demonstrate in meeting the standards, as is judged to be appropriate to the role they are fulfilling and the context in which they are working. -- 6 of 16 -- 7 Note on terminology used/glossary Specific terminology used in the standards should be interpreted as having the following meaning: ● ‘Fundamental values’ includes respect for the rule of law, individual liberty and mutual respect and tolerance of different faiths and beliefs. ● ‘Parents’ is intended to include carers, guardians and other adults acting in loco parentis. ● ‘Pupils’ is used throughout the standards, but should be taken to include references to children of all ages who are taught by qualified teachers, including those in the Early Years Foundation Stage, and those in post-16 education. ● ‘School’ covers the variety of school settings iQTS trainees are working in internationally. ● ‘Special educational needs’, as defined by the Department for Education’s Special Educational Needs Code of Practice (2014), refers to children who have a learning difficulty. This means that they either: have a significantly greater difficulty in learning than the majority of children of the same age; or have a disability which prevents or hinders them from making use of educational facilities of a kind generally provided for children of the same age in schools within the region. ● ‘Statutory frameworks’ includes all legal requirements, where applicable in the national and regional context. -- 7 of 16 -- 8 iQTS Teachers’ Standards Preamble iQTS trainees make the education of their pupils their first concern, and are accountable for achieving the highest possible standards in work and conduct. iQTS trainees should have an appreciation and understanding of the local education structure and cultural context in which they teach. They should also have a wider international perspective, an ability to communicate across cultures and value diversity of beliefs and experiences. iQTS trainees act with honesty and integrity; have strong subject knowledge; keep their knowledge and skills as teachers up-to-date and are self-critical; forge positive professional relationships; and work with parents and carers in the best interests of their pupils. iQTS trainees should meet all of the standards, and providers should support them to do so. However, we recognise that there may be local regulations or policies which differ from certain requirements in the iQTS Teachers' Standards. In this case, the trainee and provider must work with the local equivalent. Further detail is set out in the guidance notes for each standard. iQTS trainees should be sensitive to cultural beliefs and norms within their local contexts. They should model mutual respect and tolerance of different faiths and beliefs. It is essential that iQTS trainees adhere to the iQTS Teachers' Standards as well as any teaching standards, laws or regulations that exist locally or regionally (where applicable). Above all, teachers should promote the safety and wellbeing of pupils. -- 8 of 16 -- 9 Part one: Teaching A teacher must: 1. Set high expectations which inspire, motivate and challenge pupils ● establish a safe and stimulating environment for pupils, rooted in mutual respect ● set goals that stretch and challenge pupils of all backgrounds, abilities and dispositions ● demonstrate consistently the positive attitudes, values and behaviour which are expected of pupils. 2. Promote good progress and outcomes by pupils ● be accountable for pupils’ attainment, progress and outcomes ● be aware of pupils’ capabilities and their prior knowledge, and plan teaching to build on these ● guide pupils to reflect on the progress they have made and their emerging needs ● demonstrate knowledge and understanding of how pupils learn and how this impacts on teaching ● encourage pupils to take a responsible and conscientious attitude to their own work and study. 3. Demonstrate good subject and curriculum knowledge ● have a secure knowledge of the relevant subject(s) and curriculum areas, foster and maintain pupils’ interest in the subject, and address misunderstandings ● demonstrate a critical understanding of developments in the subject and curriculum areas, and promote the value of scholarship ● demonstrate an understanding of and take responsibility for promoting high standards of literacy, articulacy and the correct use of standard English, whatever the teacher’s specialist subject -- 9 of 16 -- 10 ● if teaching early reading, demonstrate a clear understanding of systematic synthetic phonics ● if teaching early mathematics, demonstrate a clear understanding of appropriate teaching strategies. Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● “Curriculum” refers to the curriculum of the school the trainee is working in. There is no requirement for this to follow the curriculum taught in English schools. ● Trainees must still have an understanding of systematic synthetic phonics even if this is not how reading is taught in the local curriculum. ● “Correct use of standard English” can be changed to the language used in the classroom. ● Teachers should be aware of bilingualism within their settings and should seek to provide a balanced approach to support their pupils, recognising bilingualism as an asset and demonstrating respect for the host country language. 4. Plan and teach well structured lessons ● impart knowledge and develop understanding through effective use of lesson time ● promote a love of learning and children’s intellectual curiosity ● set homework and plan other out-of-class activities to consolidate and extend the knowledge and understanding pupils have acquired ● reflect systematically on the effectiveness of lessons and approaches to teaching ● contribute to the design and provision of an engaging curriculum within the relevant subject area(s). Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● Where homework and out-of-class activities are not applicable, trainees should demonstrate how they encourage pupils to consolidate and extend the knowledge and understanding they have acquired in lessons, for example -- 10 of 16 -- 11 through self-study. 5. Adapt teaching to respond to the strengths and needs of all pupils ● know when and how to differentiate appropriately, using approaches which enable pupils to be taught effectively ● have a secure understanding of how a range of factors can inhibit pupils’ ability to learn, and how best to overcome these ● demonstrate an awareness of the physical, social and intellectual development of children, and know how to adapt teaching to support pupils’ education at different stages of development ● have a clear understanding of the needs of all pupils, including those with special educational needs; those of high ability; those with English as an additional language; those with disabilities; and be able to use and evaluate distinctive teaching approaches to engage and support them. Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● Trainees should be aware of and able to draw on local provision and legislation for SEND pupils. Where there is little or no local SEND provision, trainees should nevertheless have a firm grounding in SEND theory and teaching approaches, so as to include as many children as possible in mainstream school, in line with iQTS principles. Trainees should be guided by local custom and/or laws in addition to English guidance. ● Trainees should understand school processes and safeguarding in relation to all pupils, with particular focus on SEND or otherwise vulnerable pupils. ● Trainees should understand the differences between second language acquisition challenges and SEND, and employ appropriate adaptations to address the relevant needs. 6. Make accurate and productive use of assessment ● know and understand how to assess the relevant subject and curriculum areas, including statutory assessment requirements -- 11 of 16 -- 12 ● make use of formative and summative assessment to secure pupils’ progress ● use relevant data to monitor progress, set targets, and plan subsequent lessons ● give pupils regular feedback, both orally and through accurate marking, and encourage pupils to respond to the feedback. Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● Trainees should use local statutory assessment requirements where applicable. ● In a setting where no statutory assessments exist, trainees must understand how to assess and give feedback, in line with English teacher training standards. ● The method of effective feedback used should be proportionate, and the way in which pupils respond to that feedback should be balanced and mindful of the local context, customs and school requirements. 7. Manage behaviour effectively to ensure a good and safe learning environment ● have clear rules and routines for behaviour in classrooms, and take responsibility for promoting good and courteous behaviour both in classrooms and around the school, in accordance with the school’s behaviour policy ● have high expectations of behaviour, and establish a framework for discipline with a range of strategies, using praise, sanctions and rewards consistently and fairly ● manage classes effectively, using approaches which are appropriate to pupils’ needs in order to involve and motivate them ● maintain good relationships with pupils, exercise appropriate authority, and act decisively when necessary. -- 12 of 16 -- 13 Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● Trainees should have an awareness of different approaches to creating a positive learning environment in different settings. ● When seeking to evidence high expectations of behaviour, trainees should create a supportive and inclusive environment through establishing effective routines and expectations in line with the above guidance by using positive and negative reinforcement. ● Trainees should be able to demonstrate the use of the local/school framework for establishing high expectations of behaviour and an environment conducive to learning. 8. Fulfil wider professional responsibilities ● make a positive contribution to the wider life and ethos of the school ● develop effective professional relationships with colleagues, knowing how and when to draw on advice and specialist support ● deploy support staff effectively ● take responsibility for improving teaching through appropriate professional development, responding to advice and feedback from colleagues ● communicate effectively with parents with regard to pupils’ achievements and well-being. Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● Trainees should have an awareness of evidence-based models of engaging parents and carers and draw on best practice. Trainees will also need to understand that types of engagement with parents and carers may vary between different international settings. ● Trainees should understand how to best utilise support staff in their setting, where applicable. Where support staff do not exist in the placement, this can be achieved by observing the use of support staff through, for example, live streams of lessons in England or other national and international schools. -- 13 of 16 -- 14 Part two: Personal and professional conduct A teacher is expected to demonstrate consistently high standards of personal and professional conduct. The following statements define the behaviour and attitudes which set the required standard for conduct throughout a teacher’s career. ● Teachers uphold public trust in the profession and maintain high standards of ethics and behaviour, within and outside school, by: ○ treating pupils with dignity, building relationships rooted in mutual respect, and at all times observing proper boundaries appropriate to a teacher’s professional position ○ having regard for the need to safeguard pupils’ well-being, in accordance with statutory provisions ○ showing tolerance of and respect for the rights of others ○ not undermining fundamental values, including democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty, mutual respect and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs ○ ensuring that personal beliefs are not expressed in ways which exploit pupils’ vulnerability or might lead them to break the law ● Teachers must have proper and professional regard for the ethos, policies and practices of the school in which they teach, and maintain high standards in their own attendance and punctuality ● Teachers must have an understanding of, and always act within, the local statutory frameworks which set out their professional duties and responsibilities Notes for iQTS teacher training providers and trainees: ● ‘Local statutory frameworks’ include safeguarding processes and assessment. Where no local safeguarding protocols are in place, trainees must demonstrate their understanding of how to safeguard pupils in their care and their regard for pupil wellbeing at all times. ● iQTS trainees must have an understanding of the cultural context and legal frameworks within the host country in order to meet the expectations of the placement school. ● As well as the fundamental values listed above, trainees should also acknowledge any local values related to their context. -- 14 of 16 -- 15 Notes Note 1: A relevant school includes: a maintained school; a non-maintained special school; a maintained nursery school; a nursery school that forms part of a maintained school; a local authority maintained children’s centre; and a pupil referral unit (PRU) Note 2: For a full list of institutions in which induction can be served, see paragraph 2.1 of Induction for early career teachers (England) 2021 -- 15 of 16 -- 16 © Crown copyright 2022 This publication (not including logos) is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where otherwise stated. Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission from the copyright holders concerned. To view this licence: visit www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3 email psi@nationalarchives.gsi.gov.uk write to Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London, TW9 4DU About this publication: enquiries www.education.gov.uk/contactus download www.gov.uk/government/publications Follow us on Twitter: @educationgovuk Like us on Facebook: facebook.com/educationgovuk -- 16 of 16 --
