Log of Teaching Experience
As part of the course you need to accrue, 60 days with 120 hours of teaching ( the 120 is contact time) where you plan,  teach and assess, with groups bigger than 8. You can start to log this experience from the beginning of the course.
Get your teacher or mentor to sign it off at regular intervals, perhaps weekly. A downloadable copy is available below. When it is signed upload it as a PDF.
Brief notes on areas of your practice that you want to focus on and a brief evaluation are advantageous and helpful for developing your practice.  The last column is for you to make links to the taught course. If there is nothing obvious leave it blank.
This form will be submitted with your final assignment as an appendices. You can not complete the course without it as it is a requirement.
Copy of teaching log for downloading
IPGCE Professional Practice LogName.docx
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srHrzRkjWqHdnhc&attachment=false): IPGCE Professional Practice Log Name……………………… ….. Year/Month of Starting Course…………… The IPGCE requires you to undertake 120 hours of teaching. The 120 hours is the contact time with the students and the session should be planned taught and assessed by you or with support of a teacher. Subject/ age of pupils Duration of Teaching Led by you/ groups work/ individual Identified Professional targets addressed ( It is useful to have a professional target) Comment on targets by Student Signed by School Staff Link to IPGCE units or discussion. e.g. Geography Students aged 11. e.g. 90 mins e.g. Planned and led by me with teacher acting as a TA e.g. Developing my positive feedback to individuals. Checking on progress made by all students when marking Feeding assessment into future planning Stared off using + ve feedback. Found the moving from the introduction to task messy – need to do more feedback at this point. All class achieved outcomes. CB and DG need further practice Mrs Teacher Linked to discussion on behaviour management 12.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srHrzRkjWqHdnhc): IPGCE Professional Practice Log Name……………………… ….. Year/Month of Starting Course…………… The IPGCE requires you to undertake 120 hours of teaching. The 120 hours is the contact time with the students and the session should be planned taught and assessed by you or with support of a teacher. Subject/ age of pupils Duration of Teaching Led by you/ groups work/ individual Identified Professional targets addressed ( It is useful to have a professional target) Comment on targets by Student Signed by School Staff Link to IPGCE units or discussion. e.g. Geography Students aged 11. e.g. 90 mins e.g. Planned and led by me with teacher acting as a TA e.g. Developing my positive feedback to individuals. Checking on progress made by all students when marking Feeding assessment into future planning Stared off using + ve feedback. Found the moving from the introduction to task messy – need to do more feedback at this point. All class achieved outcomes. CB and DG need further practice Mrs Teacher Linked to discussion on behaviour management 12.
