​​​​​​​Programme handbook
PROGRESS TRACKING
 Mark page as complete
View progress

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srcbj87bqcmW73c&attachment=false): Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 864235 9541510 0 0 Introduction Th is handbook will provide you with important information about your programme and life as a student at UWE . Please note that the electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information, please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. The information in the handbook may also be provided in a number of other electronic or paper sources and this document provides links to the definitive data sources wherever possible. [Add other relevant links here] [To update table of contents and page numbers below, click into the table until the tab update table appears (just above the word ‘content’, click update table then select page numbers only]. Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Introduction PAGEREF _Toc170138499 \h 2 Our commitment to you PAGEREF _Toc170138500 \h 3 Communication PAGEREF _Toc170138501 \h 3 Programme information PAGEREF _Toc170138502 \h 3 Advice and Support PAGEREF _Toc170138503 \h 4 Regulations/Policies PAGEREF _Toc170138504 \h 6 Health and Safety PAGEREF _Toc170138505 \h 7 Insurance Guidelines PAGEREF _Toc170138506 \h 7 Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts PAGEREF _Toc170138507 \h 10 Our commitment to you We want to help you make the most of your experience of student life at UWE Student Futures Manifesto – The Ten - Student information | UWE Bristol Communication The main communication channel used by the University is the UWE student portal, myUWE . The myUWE link appears at the top of the University staff and student intranet home page alongside that of the library and gives you access to the portal, where much of the information relevant to you will appear, including important announcements. MyUWE gives you access to a wide range of course information, including links to Blackboard for modules you are currently studying. Blackboard provides the main communication channel for module specific information and should be checked regularly for new content and announcements. Also from myUWE you can access your UWE student email account, which you are expected to check regularly (at least twice a week) as this is the email address that the University will use to contact you. If you do not activate this account, or choose to automatically forward emails to a different email account, then the University will not be responsible if you miss important information such as details about classes, assessments, examinations, fees, registration etc. You can find more information on all aspects of your myUWE portal on the website. Programme information The Programme Specification The specific aims of the iPGCE programme are to: Critically evaluate pedagogical theories underpinning a range of best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally to inform effective evidence-informed classroom practice. Critically explore the ways in which their values, beliefs and experiences impact on themselves and their role as practitioner Critically engage with the policy, cultural and social contexts of students' lives and respond to these in practice as appropriate. Apply, critique and adapt professional understanding, skills and attributes relevant to a range of contexts Critically engage with relevant research and current debates in education to inform and develop their practice. Evidence and critically reflect on their professional competencies to identify continuing Professional development needs . Underlying principles The overall approach is student - centred and based on the assumption that individuals choosing to study at postgraduate level are highly motivated. The teaching and learning strategy is designed to promote active learning and stimulate integration, exploration, and innovation. The modules are taught through online content. This will include : narrated presentations, self-directed learning activities (including designated reading), problem-based learning, discussion forums, wikis, asynchronous feedback opportunities. All students will have a UWE tutor contact who will offer support through online discussion and interactive online seminars. Students will also be expected to undertake independent learning to build their specialist knowledge relevant to their current or future professional lives . The modules include private study weeks , when students will have an opportunity to carry out independent study and review previous taught contents and materials. The study weeks are planned in recognition of the fact that many students have professional or personal commitments in addition to their studies. Our students leave our c ourse s ready to become more reflective , creative teachers . To attain the expected standards, it is important for students to be conversant with topical areas of education . Students are also expected to engage with academic literature , which will be signposted in the modules . You are therefore expected to undertake your own independent reading and practical learning activities to support your studies. Curriculum Structure This programme is provided through online learning and part-time study . Modules 1 and 2 are taught over a period of 20 weeks, which includes two weeks of private study. For each of these modules you should anticipate spending approximately five hours per two week s studying , plus time on your assessments. Please note that teaching dates may not always align with the usual university terms. Please refer to individual module guides for specific details on teaching and assessment dates. Criteria for Awards All modules on this programme are compulsory. The programme is thus delivered as follows: MODULE 1 Teaching and Learning In this module Students will critically engage with a range of literature relating to a variety of contemporary international pedagogical approaches and their contexts, recognising their implications for learning and teaching approaches. Students will critically explore and examine how teachers evaluate the learning needs of both individuals and groups and use this to plan appropriate teaching and learning activities that promote high expectations and progress for all learners. Students will assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work. Students will reflect upon and evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the impact of these within their teaching role. Students will analyse and articulate a developed understanding of the purposes, forms and impact of Curricula. Through critical exploration and reflection, they will consider the ways in which policy, social and cultural contexts of education and those of pupils’ lives can influence their learning well-being and behaviours. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at Level 6 ) MODULE 2 Contextual Inquiry In this module students will critically reflect on their own practice in the context of their own education experiences, with particular reference to their present setting role. Students will be given tools to reflect and engage with their practice and asked to evidence this on both their professional development and how this might impact on setting practice and pupils’ outcomes within their sociocultural context. Peer support and flexibility in assessment will support students in developing a focus in their chosen area for study. These might include behaviour management, working with parents, adapted planning. Content will be provided to drive discussion, but students will be sharing their own experiences as part of this to ensure that there is a wide range of relevant material to inform learning. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at level 6 ) You are asked to pay particular attention to assessment dates and ensure you check with your programme team if you are unsure when assessments are due. You are expected to be available during these periods and absence from scheduled assessments may have a significant impact on your studies. Please take care to avoid these dates , including resits, when planning any holidays. Module Start Date End of Teaching Assessment Hand in Assessment Feedback return Field Board Resit dates In the Resit period as defined for Dept for Edu REGISTRATION : up to 18.08.25 Learning and Teaching UTLGXF-30-M September 1st 30 th of Jan 2026 Assessment A 18 th Dec Assessment B 11 th Feb 2026 Jan 2024 Feb 2026 Feb 2026 March 2026 Contextual Enquiry ULGXG-30-M 16 th Feb 7 th July 2026 Assessment A 27th May Assessment B 7th of July July2026 November The academic year dates are published on the University website . Changes to your Programme We strive, and are expected, to continually enhance our Programmes by responding to feedback from students and other Stakeholders, ensuring the curriculum is kept up to date and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and skills they need. We may make any such changes to our Programmes without consulting you if the changes will not involve a Material Change. There may be circumstances where we have to make a Material Change to the Material Information. In these circumstances, we will give you advance notice of the change and inform you about how this change will impact on your Programme and work with you to ensure you understand the reasons for, and the effect of, the change. A Material change would be a change to the programme from t he information we provided to you when we made you an offer of a place on your Programme, which includes: the published details of your Programme , including: Programme title; entry requirements; what you will study (for example core modules ); method of study (for example, lectures, seminars, work placements); expected workload including number of contact hours and expected self-study; the overall assessment strategy for your Programme (not a change to the balance of assessment within individual modules ); the award you will receive on successful completion of your Programme; location of study or possible locations; length of your Programme; whether your Programme is accredited by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB). Examples of reasons for making a Material Change to your Programme may include: a commissioning or accrediting body requires us to add new course content to your Programme; in response to feedback from stakeholders or our students; where there is an insufficient number of students applying to the Programme/module of a Programme to make running the Programme or module impractical to provide a suitable student experience and/or financially viable; to reflect the introduction of new technologies; where staff have taken extended leave or left the University; following changes to the funding we receive or that students may be eligible for; Government legislation . Where we wish to make a material change your rights are defined within the University’s Terms and Conditions Advice and Support Academic Support Academic Support is provided through a number of roles and students should seek advice from academic staff on specific matters relating to teaching and learning. Programme Leader programme related issues, issues impacting on a number of modules within the programme, programme specific activities happening outside modules Module Leader module related issues, issues that affect that module only Academic Personal Tutor broader issues relating to teaching and learning at the University. See the website for further information about the Academic Personal Tutor . Online resources and learning support, together with advice from Library Services on managing references and improving your learning, writing and research skills are available. If you need help with a particular mathematical or statistical problem, then just pop along to an espressoMaths session , sit down at the espressoMaths table, and have a chat with one of the staff on duty; this person will be able to provide you with free user-friendly advice concerning your problem. There is advice available relating to study-related issues including assessments, and if there are circumstances affecting your ability to study . Advice is available on transferring courses , taking time out or withdrawing from study. Student support The University also provides support to students relating to a range of matters through the Information Points and Student Support Advisers. Student Experience Coaches can provide help you with your university experience outside of the classroom https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/student-experience-coaches Tuition fees and information on bursaries and scholarships . Residents’ guides and accommodation options . Advice and guidance for international students at UWE . Preparing to go on placement whilst at UWE. Advice on opportunities for placements or finding placements. Wellbeing advice, from staying healthy to counselling . HYPERLINK "https://www.uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/equality-diversity-and-inclusivity" Information on Equality and Diversity Explore and practice faith and spirituality at UWE . Student voice Information on student feedback and surveys . Link for information for the Students Union and how to become a student representative. Post graduation support Information to help you in preparing for your final year can be found on the website. Prepare for life after university with Careers advice and guidance before, during and after your studies. Regulations/Policies Regulations The University regulations are designed to ensure consistency and equity for all students and to provide clarity in how you will be treated by the University in any given situation. Please see the UWE website for more information about how your degree will be calculated . In addition to the academic regulations, you should pay particular attention to the IT Acceptable Use Policy as this defines what you can or cannot do for the protection of systems and of individual users. Assessment Offences In order to ensure that all students are assessed fairly and equitably, it is important that markers are able to be sure it is your own work which is being assessed and that all your assessed work is done within the University rules and regulations. If a marker or invigilator believes that you have committed an assessment offence this will be reported and the allegation will have to be investigated. The University take s the committing of assessment offences very seriously. Action is always taken to investigate and follow through any such cases that are reported. Further information, including the Assessment Offences Policy, can be found on the Academic integrity webpages. An assessment offence is defined by the University as ‘ any action which has the potential to give a student an unfair advantage in an assessment.’ Plagiarism , collusion , and contract cheating are examples of the use of unfair means of presenting work for assessment. Plagiarism – Demonstrating that you have read a wide range of material (books, journals or other sources) in writing a piece of coursework is essential but so is ensuring that you acknowledge that work properly through correct referencing i.e. the naming of authors/sources and the use of paraphrasing, quotation marks or indented paragraphs. Collusion – You may be asked to work with other students on a project, in class or analysing data, it is essential that any work you hand in for assessment purposes is written up by you on an individual basis. The text and diagrams / pictures etc. you use must be your own. You must be particularly careful if you are sharing a computer with another student or passing information between yourself and others in an electronic format such as email that you do not use someone else’s words – or that they use your words. Non-compliance – it is important that you follow the instructions given to you by staff and adhere to the regulations of the University. For example, non-compliance could include taking unauthorised papers or items into an examination room. Avoiding assessment offences Assessment offences can frequently be avoided by ensuring that your work is correctly referenced and complies with the academic regulations. Referencing is the technique used to direct readers of a piece of written work to the sources of information that have been used in the preparation of the written work. If you wish to refer to something you have read, you MUST give a reference for this material. The University Library provides advice on managing references . Information relating to assessment word count restrictions can be found in the Assessment Content Limit Policy on the website. Insurance Guidelines The University has a range of insurance policies which provide cover to both the University, it’s employees and to students. The following guidelines provide summary information on the operation of key policies in the context of University activities. Please see the Insurance Guide for further information. Students on University Premises Indemnification of the University The University has arranged insurance which provides indemnity in respect of the University’s legal liabilities, which it may incur as a result of injury to students on its premises. There is no cover for accidents that are nobody’s fault. Personal accident Although an element of Personal Accident insurance is included in the University’s Overseas Travel policy the University does not provide general Personal Accident Insurance for students. It is the student’s responsibility to arrange their own cover should they wish to do so. However, Personal Accident Insurance is available for students belonging to the various Students’ Union sports clubs. For further details please contact the Students’ Unions Finance Manager. Fie l d Trips Travel insurance is provided for students undertaking overseas field trips, which are an integral part of their course. An element of Personal Accident insurance cover is included in this policy. However, students undertaking field trips in the UK or overseas may wish to obtain a more comprehensive cover themselves for the duration of the trip. Sandwich Courses Students enrolled on sandwich courses normally complete the work placement as employees of the host firm. It is expected that the student will be covered by the employer’s insurances as they apply to its employees. Secondment and work experience schemes Where students are seconded to firms (except for periods of industrial training in connection with sandwich courses) public authorities or other establishments for the purpose of practical training or industrial experience, the insurance arranged indemnifies the University in connection with: legal liability incurred as a result of accidental in jury to the students themselves legal liability incurred as a result of accidental injury/damage to third party persons or property arising out of any University activities. Special arrangements may be necessary depending on the nature of the work experience. Receiving organisations should be asked to deem students to be employees for the purpose of Employers’ Liability an d Third Party Liability cover. Student Overseas Travel General The University has automatic travel insurance cover for employees and students. This policy provides cover for employees travelling overseas on official University business and students who travel overseas as part of their UWE course. Employees are defined as persons with a contract of employment with the University. Our Insurers have confirmed that the cover will also apply to external examiners if travelling on University business and being paid by the University for their services. However it will not apply to other persons who are sub-contracting their services to the University . No cover applies for holidays or other personal travel. Staff/students should make alternative insurance arrangements for that part of their travel which is not University business. How to arrange cover Overseas visits or study periods Travel insurance cover is provided for students who are required to travel overseas for part of their course. Claims Please see the Insurance Guide for further information and contact details. Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts Dr Juliet Edmonds Programme Leader . Module Leader Learners and Teachers IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme Leader Tutor IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Malcolm Richards Module Leader Contextual Enquiry Tutor Malcolm.richard@uwe.ac.uk Dr Rich Baker Tutor Rich.baker@uwe.ac.uk Dr Fay Lewis Tutor Fay.lewis@uwe.ac.uk Julie Buckland Assistant Head of Department Julie.buckland@uwe.ac.uk

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srcbj87bqcmW73c): Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 Programme Handbook 202 5 /202 6 Programme Name: International Post-Graduate Certificate of Education/ Professional Certificate in Education Programme Leader : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme &amp; School contacts: Programme leaders IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Cohort: September 2025 864235 9541510 0 0 Introduction Th is handbook will provide you with important information about your programme and life as a student at UWE . Please note that the electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information, please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. The information in the handbook may also be provided in a number of other electronic or paper sources and this document provides links to the definitive data sources wherever possible. [Add other relevant links here] [To update table of contents and page numbers below, click into the table until the tab update table appears (just above the word ‘content’, click update table then select page numbers only]. Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Introduction PAGEREF _Toc170138499 \h 2 Our commitment to you PAGEREF _Toc170138500 \h 3 Communication PAGEREF _Toc170138501 \h 3 Programme information PAGEREF _Toc170138502 \h 3 Advice and Support PAGEREF _Toc170138503 \h 4 Regulations/Policies PAGEREF _Toc170138504 \h 6 Health and Safety PAGEREF _Toc170138505 \h 7 Insurance Guidelines PAGEREF _Toc170138506 \h 7 Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts PAGEREF _Toc170138507 \h 10 Our commitment to you We want to help you make the most of your experience of student life at UWE Student Futures Manifesto – The Ten - Student information | UWE Bristol Communication The main communication channel used by the University is the UWE student portal, myUWE . The myUWE link appears at the top of the University staff and student intranet home page alongside that of the library and gives you access to the portal, where much of the information relevant to you will appear, including important announcements. MyUWE gives you access to a wide range of course information, including links to Blackboard for modules you are currently studying. Blackboard provides the main communication channel for module specific information and should be checked regularly for new content and announcements. Also from myUWE you can access your UWE student email account, which you are expected to check regularly (at least twice a week) as this is the email address that the University will use to contact you. If you do not activate this account, or choose to automatically forward emails to a different email account, then the University will not be responsible if you miss important information such as details about classes, assessments, examinations, fees, registration etc. You can find more information on all aspects of your myUWE portal on the website. Programme information The Programme Specification The specific aims of the iPGCE programme are to: Critically evaluate pedagogical theories underpinning a range of best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally to inform effective evidence-informed classroom practice. Critically explore the ways in which their values, beliefs and experiences impact on themselves and their role as practitioner Critically engage with the policy, cultural and social contexts of students' lives and respond to these in practice as appropriate. Apply, critique and adapt professional understanding, skills and attributes relevant to a range of contexts Critically engage with relevant research and current debates in education to inform and develop their practice. Evidence and critically reflect on their professional competencies to identify continuing Professional development needs . Underlying principles The overall approach is student - centred and based on the assumption that individuals choosing to study at postgraduate level are highly motivated. The teaching and learning strategy is designed to promote active learning and stimulate integration, exploration, and innovation. The modules are taught through online content. This will include : narrated presentations, self-directed learning activities (including designated reading), problem-based learning, discussion forums, wikis, asynchronous feedback opportunities. All students will have a UWE tutor contact who will offer support through online discussion and interactive online seminars. Students will also be expected to undertake independent learning to build their specialist knowledge relevant to their current or future professional lives . The modules include private study weeks , when students will have an opportunity to carry out independent study and review previous taught contents and materials. The study weeks are planned in recognition of the fact that many students have professional or personal commitments in addition to their studies. Our students leave our c ourse s ready to become more reflective , creative teachers . To attain the expected standards, it is important for students to be conversant with topical areas of education . Students are also expected to engage with academic literature , which will be signposted in the modules . You are therefore expected to undertake your own independent reading and practical learning activities to support your studies. Curriculum Structure This programme is provided through online learning and part-time study . Modules 1 and 2 are taught over a period of 20 weeks, which includes two weeks of private study. For each of these modules you should anticipate spending approximately five hours per two week s studying , plus time on your assessments. Please note that teaching dates may not always align with the usual university terms. Please refer to individual module guides for specific details on teaching and assessment dates. Criteria for Awards All modules on this programme are compulsory. The programme is thus delivered as follows: MODULE 1 Teaching and Learning In this module Students will critically engage with a range of literature relating to a variety of contemporary international pedagogical approaches and their contexts, recognising their implications for learning and teaching approaches. Students will critically explore and examine how teachers evaluate the learning needs of both individuals and groups and use this to plan appropriate teaching and learning activities that promote high expectations and progress for all learners. Students will assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work. Students will reflect upon and evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the impact of these within their teaching role. Students will analyse and articulate a developed understanding of the purposes, forms and impact of Curricula. Through critical exploration and reflection, they will consider the ways in which policy, social and cultural contexts of education and those of pupils’ lives can influence their learning well-being and behaviours. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at Level 6 ) MODULE 2 Contextual Inquiry In this module students will critically reflect on their own practice in the context of their own education experiences, with particular reference to their present setting role. Students will be given tools to reflect and engage with their practice and asked to evidence this on both their professional development and how this might impact on setting practice and pupils’ outcomes within their sociocultural context. Peer support and flexibility in assessment will support students in developing a focus in their chosen area for study. These might include behaviour management, working with parents, adapted planning. Content will be provided to drive discussion, but students will be sharing their own experiences as part of this to ensure that there is a wide range of relevant material to inform learning. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at level 6 ) You are asked to pay particular attention to assessment dates and ensure you check with your programme team if you are unsure when assessments are due. You are expected to be available during these periods and absence from scheduled assessments may have a significant impact on your studies. Please take care to avoid these dates , including resits, when planning any holidays. Module Start Date End of Teaching Assessment Hand in Assessment Feedback return Field Board Resit dates In the Resit period as defined for Dept for Edu REGISTRATION : up to 18.08.25 Learning and Teaching UTLGXF-30-M September 1st 30 th of Jan 2026 Assessment A 18 th Dec Assessment B 11 th Feb 2026 Jan 2024 Feb 2026 Feb 2026 March 2026 Contextual Enquiry ULGXG-30-M 16 th Feb 7 th July 2026 Assessment A 27th May Assessment B 7th of July July2026 November The academic year dates are published on the University website . Changes to your Programme We strive, and are expected, to continually enhance our Programmes by responding to feedback from students and other Stakeholders, ensuring the curriculum is kept up to date and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and skills they need. We may make any such changes to our Programmes without consulting you if the changes will not involve a Material Change. There may be circumstances where we have to make a Material Change to the Material Information. In these circumstances, we will give you advance notice of the change and inform you about how this change will impact on your Programme and work with you to ensure you understand the reasons for, and the effect of, the change. A Material change would be a change to the programme from t he information we provided to you when we made you an offer of a place on your Programme, which includes: the published details of your Programme , including: Programme title; entry requirements; what you will study (for example core modules ); method of study (for example, lectures, seminars, work placements); expected workload including number of contact hours and expected self-study; the overall assessment strategy for your Programme (not a change to the balance of assessment within individual modules ); the award you will receive on successful completion of your Programme; location of study or possible locations; length of your Programme; whether your Programme is accredited by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB). Examples of reasons for making a Material Change to your Programme may include: a commissioning or accrediting body requires us to add new course content to your Programme; in response to feedback from stakeholders or our students; where there is an insufficient number of students applying to the Programme/module of a Programme to make running the Programme or module impractical to provide a suitable student experience and/or financially viable; to reflect the introduction of new technologies; where staff have taken extended leave or left the University; following changes to the funding we receive or that students may be eligible for; Government legislation . Where we wish to make a material change your rights are defined within the University’s Terms and Conditions Advice and Support Academic Support Academic Support is provided through a number of roles and students should seek advice from academic staff on specific matters relating to teaching and learning. Programme Leader programme related issues, issues impacting on a number of modules within the programme, programme specific activities happening outside modules Module Leader module related issues, issues that affect that module only Academic Personal Tutor broader issues relating to teaching and learning at the University. See the website for further information about the Academic Personal Tutor . Online resources and learning support, together with advice from Library Services on managing references and improving your learning, writing and research skills are available. If you need help with a particular mathematical or statistical problem, then just pop along to an espressoMaths session , sit down at the espressoMaths table, and have a chat with one of the staff on duty; this person will be able to provide you with free user-friendly advice concerning your problem. There is advice available relating to study-related issues including assessments, and if there are circumstances affecting your ability to study . Advice is available on transferring courses , taking time out or withdrawing from study. Student support The University also provides support to students relating to a range of matters through the Information Points and Student Support Advisers. Student Experience Coaches can provide help you with your university experience outside of the classroom https://www.uwe.ac.uk/study/study-support/student-experience-coaches Tuition fees and information on bursaries and scholarships . Residents’ guides and accommodation options . Advice and guidance for international students at UWE . Preparing to go on placement whilst at UWE. Advice on opportunities for placements or finding placements. Wellbeing advice, from staying healthy to counselling . HYPERLINK "https://www.uwe.ac.uk/about/values-vision-strategy/equality-diversity-and-inclusivity" Information on Equality and Diversity Explore and practice faith and spirituality at UWE . Student voice Information on student feedback and surveys . Link for information for the Students Union and how to become a student representative. Post graduation support Information to help you in preparing for your final year can be found on the website. Prepare for life after university with Careers advice and guidance before, during and after your studies. Regulations/Policies Regulations The University regulations are designed to ensure consistency and equity for all students and to provide clarity in how you will be treated by the University in any given situation. Please see the UWE website for more information about how your degree will be calculated . In addition to the academic regulations, you should pay particular attention to the IT Acceptable Use Policy as this defines what you can or cannot do for the protection of systems and of individual users. Assessment Offences In order to ensure that all students are assessed fairly and equitably, it is important that markers are able to be sure it is your own work which is being assessed and that all your assessed work is done within the University rules and regulations. If a marker or invigilator believes that you have committed an assessment offence this will be reported and the allegation will have to be investigated. The University take s the committing of assessment offences very seriously. Action is always taken to investigate and follow through any such cases that are reported. Further information, including the Assessment Offences Policy, can be found on the Academic integrity webpages. An assessment offence is defined by the University as ‘ any action which has the potential to give a student an unfair advantage in an assessment.’ Plagiarism , collusion , and contract cheating are examples of the use of unfair means of presenting work for assessment. Plagiarism – Demonstrating that you have read a wide range of material (books, journals or other sources) in writing a piece of coursework is essential but so is ensuring that you acknowledge that work properly through correct referencing i.e. the naming of authors/sources and the use of paraphrasing, quotation marks or indented paragraphs. Collusion – You may be asked to work with other students on a project, in class or analysing data, it is essential that any work you hand in for assessment purposes is written up by you on an individual basis. The text and diagrams / pictures etc. you use must be your own. You must be particularly careful if you are sharing a computer with another student or passing information between yourself and others in an electronic format such as email that you do not use someone else’s words – or that they use your words. Non-compliance – it is important that you follow the instructions given to you by staff and adhere to the regulations of the University. For example, non-compliance could include taking unauthorised papers or items into an examination room. Avoiding assessment offences Assessment offences can frequently be avoided by ensuring that your work is correctly referenced and complies with the academic regulations. Referencing is the technique used to direct readers of a piece of written work to the sources of information that have been used in the preparation of the written work. If you wish to refer to something you have read, you MUST give a reference for this material. The University Library provides advice on managing references . Information relating to assessment word count restrictions can be found in the Assessment Content Limit Policy on the website. Insurance Guidelines The University has a range of insurance policies which provide cover to both the University, it’s employees and to students. The following guidelines provide summary information on the operation of key policies in the context of University activities. Please see the Insurance Guide for further information. Students on University Premises Indemnification of the University The University has arranged insurance which provides indemnity in respect of the University’s legal liabilities, which it may incur as a result of injury to students on its premises. There is no cover for accidents that are nobody’s fault. Personal accident Although an element of Personal Accident insurance is included in the University’s Overseas Travel policy the University does not provide general Personal Accident Insurance for students. It is the student’s responsibility to arrange their own cover should they wish to do so. However, Personal Accident Insurance is available for students belonging to the various Students’ Union sports clubs. For further details please contact the Students’ Unions Finance Manager. Fie l d Trips Travel insurance is provided for students undertaking overseas field trips, which are an integral part of their course. An element of Personal Accident insurance cover is included in this policy. However, students undertaking field trips in the UK or overseas may wish to obtain a more comprehensive cover themselves for the duration of the trip. Sandwich Courses Students enrolled on sandwich courses normally complete the work placement as employees of the host firm. It is expected that the student will be covered by the employer’s insurances as they apply to its employees. Secondment and work experience schemes Where students are seconded to firms (except for periods of industrial training in connection with sandwich courses) public authorities or other establishments for the purpose of practical training or industrial experience, the insurance arranged indemnifies the University in connection with: legal liability incurred as a result of accidental in jury to the students themselves legal liability incurred as a result of accidental injury/damage to third party persons or property arising out of any University activities. Special arrangements may be necessary depending on the nature of the work experience. Receiving organisations should be asked to deem students to be employees for the purpose of Employers’ Liability an d Third Party Liability cover. Student Overseas Travel General The University has automatic travel insurance cover for employees and students. This policy provides cover for employees travelling overseas on official University business and students who travel overseas as part of their UWE course. Employees are defined as persons with a contract of employment with the University. Our Insurers have confirmed that the cover will also apply to external examiners if travelling on University business and being paid by the University for their services. However it will not apply to other persons who are sub-contracting their services to the University . No cover applies for holidays or other personal travel. Staff/students should make alternative insurance arrangements for that part of their travel which is not University business. How to arrange cover Overseas visits or study periods Travel insurance cover is provided for students who are required to travel overseas for part of their course. Claims Please see the Insurance Guide for further information and contact details. Appendix A: Key Programme &amp; School Contacts Dr Juliet Edmonds Programme Leader . Module Leader Learners and Teachers IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Programme Leader Tutor IPGCE.pls@uwe.ac.uk Malcolm Richards Module Leader Contextual Enquiry Tutor Malcolm.richard@uwe.ac.uk Dr Rich Baker Tutor Rich.baker@uwe.ac.uk Dr Fay Lewis Tutor Fay.lewis@uwe.ac.uk Julie Buckland Assistant Head of Department Julie.buckland@uwe.ac.uk

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srrwq4dtHsWjydW&attachment=false): 861646 3235569 IPGCE Programme Handbook September 2 5 Programme Nam e : iPGCE (online learning) Programme Leader s : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Cohort: January 26 0 0 IPGCE Programme Handbook September 2 5 Programme Nam e : iPGCE (online learning) Programme Leader s : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Cohort: January 26 360045 2700655 0 0 864235 9541510 0 0 Aims of the Handbook Welcome to the School of Education and Childhood , at t he University of the West of England, Bristol. You are now a student member of this University, and as such are entitled to ma ke full use of all the learning and cultural facilities that the University has to offer. We hope you have an enjoyable and successful time at the University. The iPGCE will involve approximately 5 hours study every two weeks alongside your teaching . This handbook is designed to provide information relevant to the programme. The information in the handbook may also be provided in a number of other electronic sources and this document provides links to the definitive data sources wherever possible. Please note that the electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information, please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. Please read this handbook carefully and retain it for future reference. As the Programme Leader it is a great pleasure to welcome you on to the programme. The teaching team will do everything they can to make the course enjoyable, stimulating and rewarding. Our aim is to give you an in-depth opportunity to explore both the theory and pra ctice of teaching . Juliet Edmonds and Sarah Chicken , Programme Leader s Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Aims of the Handbook PAGEREF _Toc530145722 \h 2 1. Programme team information PAGEREF _Toc530145723 \h 3 2. Key Faculty Staff PAGEREF _Toc530145724 \h 3 3. Programme specific information PAGEREF _Toc530145725 \h 4 4. Assessment PAGEREF _Toc530145726 \h 6 5. Additional Information &amp; Support PAGEREF _Toc530145728 \h 11 6. Communication PAGEREF _Toc530145729 \h 11 7. UWE Blackboard PAGEREF _Toc530145730 \h 13 8 . Computing requirements PAGEREF _Toc530145733 \h 15 9 . Library Services PAGEREF _Toc530145734 \h 15 10 . Regulations/Policies PAGEREF _Toc530145735 \h 16 11 . Advice and Support PAGEREF _Toc530145736 \h 19 12 . Insurance Guidelines PAGEREF _Toc530145737 \h 20 Programme team information Juliet Edmonds and Sarah Chicken , are responsible for the management of all parts of the programme. If you have any queries or problems , t hey can be contacted as follows: ipgce.pls@uwe.ac.uk You will be assigned a tutor during each module who you can contact about your assessments . The tutors can be generally be contacted about emai l , but please remember that they will generally only be available during UK office hours (09:00 – 17:00 GMT , Monday – Friday); they will respond to queries as soon as they can ( n ote: not all tutors are full time) . Each module, is made up of a series of units which consider a distinct aspect of relevant practice or theory. Please remember that many general questions can be answered by checking Pebblepad or the UWE Bristol website, so do utilise these before getting in touch. The tutors for this programme are Dr Juliet Edmonds Ass.Prof Sarah Chicken Ipgce.pls @uwe.ac.uk Malcolm Richards Malcolm.richard@uwe.ac.uk Dr Fay Lewis Fay.lewis@uwe.ac.uk Jo Biddle Jane Carter Dave Jones Cerys The leaders of the modules in this programme are: Learning and Teaching : Contextual Inquir y: sarah.chicken@uwe.ac.uk It is your responsibility to keep in contact with the teaching staff on the programme . Please update your contact address with both the programme team and univers ity should you change address. Change your contact details via MyUWE . This is very i mportant . We will only send emails to UWE Bristol email addresses. It is your responsibility to check your UWE Bristol accounts regularly, or to arrange to have your emails redirected to a personal account. If you do not check your emails regularly , you may miss essential information regarding the modules. Programme structure: iPGCE : Key Faculty Staff Head of School of Education : Mandy Lee Associated Head of Department: Julie.buckland@uwe.ac.uk Chief external examiners from other institutions are appointed to a suite of programmes to act independently and work with the Faculty in the management of threshold academic standards, ensuring parity of approach to assessment across all awards available. Programme specific information The specific aims of the iPGCE programme are to: Critically evaluate pedagogical theories underpinning a range of best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally to inform effective evidence-informed classroom practice. Critically explore the ways in which their values, beliefs and experiences impact on themselves and their role as practitioner Critically engage with the policy, cultural and social contexts of students' lives and respond to these in practice as appropriate. Apply, critique and adapt professional understanding, skills and attributes relevant to a range of contexts Critically engage with relevant research and current debates in education to inform and develop their practice. Evidence and critically reflect on their professional competencies to identify continuing Professional development needs . Underlying principles The overall approach is student - centred and based on the assumption that individuals choosing to study at postgraduate level are highly motivated. The teaching and learning strategy is designed to promote active learning and stimulate integration, exploration, and innovation. The modules are taught through online content. This will include : narrated presentations, self-directed learning activities (including designated reading), problem-based learning, discussion forums, wikis, asynchronous feedback opportunities . All students will have a UWE tutor contact who will offer support through online discussion and interactive online seminars. Students will also be expected to undertake independent learning to build their specialist knowledge relevant to their current or future professional lives . The modules include private study weeks , when students will have an opportunity to carry out independent study and review previous taught contents and materials. The study weeks are planned in recognition of the fact that many students have professional or personal commitments in addition to their studies. Our students leave our c ourse s ready to become more reflective , creative teachers . To attain the expected standards, it is important for students to be conversant with topical areas of education . Students are also expected to engage with academic literature , which will be signposted in the modules . You are therefore expected to undertake your own independent reading an d practical learning activities to support your studies. Curriculum Structure This programme is provided through online learning and part-time study . Modules 1 and 2 are taught over a period of 2 0 weeks, which includes two weeks of private study. For each of these modules you should anticipate spending approximately five hours per two week s studying , plus time on your assessments. Please note that teaching dates may not always align with the usual university terms. Please refer to individual module guides for specific details on teaching and assessment dates. Criteria for Awards All modules o n this programme are compulsory. The programme is thus delivered as follows: MODULE 1 Teaching and Learning In this module Students will critically engage with a range of literature relating to a variety of contemporary international pedagogical approaches and their contexts, recognising their implications for learning and teaching approaches. Students will critically explore and examine how teachers evaluate the learning needs of both individuals and groups and use this to plan appropriate teaching and learning activities that promote high expectations and progress for all learners. Students will assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work. Students will reflect upon and evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the impact of these within their teaching role. Students will analyse and articulate a developed understanding of the purposes, forms and impact of Curricula. Through critical exploration and reflection, they will consider the ways in which policy, social and cultural contexts of education and those of pupils’ lives can influence their learning well-being and behaviours. ( 30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at Level 6 ) MODULE 2 Contextual Inquiry In this module students will critically reflect on their own practice in the context of their own education experiences, with particular reference to their present setting role. Students will be given tools to reflect and engage with their practice and asked to evidence this on both their professional development and how this might impact on setting practice and pupils’ outcomes within their sociocultural context. Peer support and flexibility in assessment will support students in developing a focus in their chosen area for study. These might include behaviour management, Working with parents, adapted planning. Content will be provided to drive discussion, but students will be sharing their own experiences as part of this to ensure that there is a wide range of relevant material to inform learning. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at level 6 ) Award: International Postgraduate Certificate in Education ( Masters Level) or International Professional Certificate in Education (Level 6) Assessment An assignment (also referred to as a piece of coursework) is the general name for any piece of work that is assessed and will count towards the final mark you get for a module. Assessment will be made with reference to the following Domains, which will be defined for each assessment within Module Handbooks Assessment Domains: A: Conceptual Domain (Core) The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B: Literature Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. C: Contextual Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors ( eg personal, locational, historical, political etc) influencing the area of study and is able to critically engage with the contextual significance. E: Ethical Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of ethical issues arising in or associated with the area of study, showing sensitive engagement with an appropriate ethical framework for interpretation of ideas or for practice. In addition, there is exploration of some of the problematics arising in relation to ethical dilemmas or decisions. F: Values Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position and where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study, and critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. G: Action Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. Assessment Grading Criteria for the School of Education The modules are assessed at M level or Level 6 Masters Marking Rubrics Criteria Grade Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument . The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. There is sustained and coherent transformation of alternative viewpoints in developing argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and coherently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument. The student engages critically with relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently and form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument. The student engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are presented in an organised way. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is some development of argument. Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of critical analysis and/or evaluation is present. Attempts to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful or inadequate. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature, including appropriate primary sources, has been synthesised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas including evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of relevant and appropriate literature has been skilfully utilised in the critical analysis and dis cussion of ideas, including evidence of excellent critical engagement with the literature . A wide range of relevant and appropriate literature has been utilised in analysis and discussion of ideas . A number of examples of good critical engagement with that literature are apparent . A range of relevant literature has been used to give some analysis and discussion of ideas . Some examples of critical engagement are apparent . Reference to irrelevant literature and/or use of a narrow range of sources. Inappropriate sources used, for example non-academic or out of date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident. C Contextual Domain CLM : The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc) influencing the area of study and demonstrates critically engagement with this. There is an extensive and creative synthesis of a full range of relevant contextual factors which is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is an extensive awareness and understanding of a wide range of significant contextual factors which is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is good awareness and understanding of the relevant contextual factors supported by a critical discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is some awareness and understanding of relevant contextual factors apparent and some discussion around the significance of these upon the area of study. There is limited awareness and understanding of the range of contextual factors that are relevant to the area of study and/or little awareness of the contextual significance. F Values Domain FLM : The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. There is full identific ation and a transformative discussion around critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. There is a full identification, and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. There is g ood identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. There is s ome identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. There is l ittle or no identification and articulat ion of the student’s own values and/or of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this. There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful r eflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is demonstration of an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited . There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Level 6 Marking Rubrics Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is little or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas. A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. C Contextual Domain CL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc ) influencing the area of study. There is extensive awareness of a full range of the relevant contextual factors. This is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is extensive awareness of an extensive range of relevant contextual factors. There is comprehensive discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a wide range of relevant contextual factors apparent. There is full discussion of how these factors may be significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a range of relevant contextual factors. This is supported by some discussion of how each contextual factor may influence the area of study. There is minimal awareness of some relevant contextual factors. This is supported, to some extent, by a discussion of how some of these may influence the area of study. There is little or no awareness shown of relevant contextual factors. There is little or no reference to how contextual factors may influence an area of study. F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice. There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Procedure for Submitting Assignments Online All coursework assignments for your modules will be submitted online via Pebblepad . Please take a screen shot when you get the confirmation of the uploaded document. If you are asked to submit online, you are not permitted to submit the assessment in person or via the post. Assignments are not permitted to be emailed or sent directly to the Module or Programme Leader , or another member of the teaching staff, unless specifically instructed. All assignments must be submitted by 2pm on the date of the deadline . Late Submission of Assignments You may submit your work up to 2 days from the hand-in dates with no penalty. Please note -this may be at a weekend with no techni ca l support. If you have personal circumstances that may influence your ability to submit your work, then please visit the Student Support Advisor webpage: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/studentsupportadvisers.aspx Tutors can not issue extensions . It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the tutors have access to their recordings and that the sound works. Failure to do this may mean your work goes to a retake opportunity. You are asked to pay particular attention to assessment dates and ensure you check with your academic team if you are unsure when assessments are due. Students are expected to be available to submit assessed work by the deadline . Please take care to ensure that any holiday you book allows you to meet the assessment deadlines . Presentation of work The iPGCE develops students for professional teaching careers in the primary and secondary phases and as such, the work you submit for assessments needs to reflect professional standards. This relates to the presentation of your work and also the clarity and grammar of your written English. All assignments must be submitted in English. You should also e nsure you adhere to professional communication standards in other communications around the programme , f or example when emailing academic staff or external organisations. For all text - based assignments that you submit you should: Use a standard, professional font such as Arial or Times New Roman. Use a minimum of 12 point font size, with the exception of figures and tables which may use a minimum font size of 9 point and should be legible. Align text to the left-ha nd side of the page or justify it . Doubl e or one-and-a- half space your work, with the exception of quotes, figures, tables or footnotes where single spacing can be used. Insert line breaks between paragraphs. Leave a margin (ideally 2.5cm) on both sides of the page. Spelling should be UK English. It is recommended that you check that your spell checker is set accordingly. Additional Information &amp; Support The academic year dates are published on the University website, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/aboutus/termdates.aspx For IT support please contact: IT Services https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/its/ The IT support centre is open 365 days a year and can be contacted by phone (+44 (0) 117 328 3612) at any time other than between 08:00 and 08:30 UTC on weekdays. See also: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/its/itfacilities/itsupportcentre.aspx You can also email IT for support at its.helpdesk@uwe.ac.uk between 08:00 and 16:00 UTC Monday – Friday. Communication The main communication channel used by the University and the Faculty is the UWE Bristol student portal, myUWE . The myUWE link appears at the top of the University staff and student intranet home page alongside that of the library and gives you access to the portal, where much of the information relevant to you will appear, inclu ding important announcements. M yUWE gives you access to a wide range of course information, including links to Blackboard for modules you are currently studying. Blackboard provides the main communication channel for module specific information and should be checked regularly for new content and announcements. Also from myUWE you can access your UWE Bristol student email account, which you are expected to check regularly as this is the email address that the University will use to contact you. If you do not activate this account, or chose to automatically forward emails to a different email account, then the University will not be responsible if you miss important information such as details about assessments, examinations, fees, registration etc. Please see http://info.uwe.ac.uk/myUWE/guidance/ for further information on all aspects of your myUWE portal. Changes to your Programme We strive, and are expected, to continually enhance our Programmes by responding to feedback from students and other s takeholders, ensuring the curriculum is kept up to date and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and skills they need. We may make any such changes to our Programmes without consulting you if the changes will not involve a m aterial c hange. There may be circumstances where we have to make a m aterial c hange to the m aterial i nformation. In these circumstances, we will give you advance notice of the change and inform you about how this change will impact on your Programme and work with you to ensure you understand the reasons for, and the effect of, the change. A m aterial c hange would be a change to the programme from t he information we provided to you when we made you an offer of a place on your Programme, which includes: T he published details of your Programme , including: Programme title; entry requirements; what you will study (for example core modules); M ethod of study (for example, lectures, seminars, work placements); expected workload including number of contact hours and expected self-study; T he overall assessment strategy for your Programme (not a change to the balance of assessment within individual modules); T he award you will receive on successful completion of your Programme; L ength of your Programme; W hether your Programme is accredited by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB). Examples of reasons for making a m aterial c hange to your Programme may include: A commissioning or accrediting body requires us to add new course content to your Programme; I n response to feedback from stakeholders or our students; W here there is an insufficient number of students applying to the Programme/module of a Programme to make running the Programme or module impractical to provide a suitable student experience and/or financially viable; T o reflect the introduction of new technologies; W here staff have taken extended leave or left the University; F ollowing changes to the funding we receive or that students may be eligible for; Government legislation Where we wish to make a m aterial c hange your rights are defined within the University’s Terms and Conditions UWE Blackboard / Pebblepad The programme will be delivered via the UWE Blackboard virtual learning environment (VLE) and through the Pebblepad workbook . This will give you access to all course materials and be 3447245 13335 the main communication channel between you and the teaching sta ff. UWE Blackboard is accessed via the student portal, myUWE , accessed from the university home page at www.uwe.ac.uk myUWE gives you access to a wide range of information, including links to the UWE Library. Further information on all aspects of your myUWE portal click the link. From the myUWE link, log on using the student name and password you were sent after registering. Click on the course name to gain access to the course Accessing your course materials in Blackboard We try not to use Blackboard so you don’t have too many platforms tp contend with. Everything should be on Pebblepad . 8 . Computing requirements You will need a computer with appropriate Blackboard system requirements (minimum specification Windows 7, Mac OS x version 10.6.6 or later) and access to the i nternet in order to complete your study programme. You can also access the modules and course content via a smartphone or tablet, but this will mean you cannot use certain functions during live seminars. More information about system requirements More information about UWE Blackboard From this site, you can test your system to ensure it is compatible with Blackboard, and download the Blackboard Collaborate software. 9 . Library Services The library website is: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/library/ . All the modules include suggested reading . These readings should be seen as a starting point for your exploration of the field. Course reading materials will either be available electronically via the library or you will be given details to locate them online. For the duration of the programme , participants are entitled to full access to the range of online services offered by the UWE Bristol l ibrary. You will need your UWE Bristol log in details to access these services. If you are unfamiliar with academic libraries or using electronic resources, you will find more information here: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/library/usingthelibrary.aspx The workbook will help you learn how to: Find relevant books, journal articles and other information sources, and access them electronically Reflect on different places to find information and how to use information sources effectively Access help and services from the UWE Bristol l ibrary You can also contact the library, including through a 24/7 live chat service . The library holds subscriptions to more than 13,000 journals and has a large collection of electronic books, which are readable online. The Library also offers access to useful databases . 10 . Regulations/Policies QAA descriptor for a higher education qualification at Level M A systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of their academic discipline, field of study or area of professional practice A comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to their own research or advanced scholarship O riginality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline C onceptual understanding that enables the student: T o evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in the discipline T o evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses. QAA descriptor for higher education at Level 6 A systematic understanding of key aspects of their field of study, including acquisition of coherent and detailed knowledge, at least some of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of defined aspects of a discipline A n ability to deploy accurately established techniques of analysis and enquiry within a discipline C onceptual understanding that enables the student: to devise and sustain arguments, and/or to solve problems, using ideas and techniques, some of which are at the forefront of a discipline o to describe and comment upon particular aspects of current research, or equivalent advanced scholarship, in the discipline A n appreciation of the uncertainty, ambiguity and limits of knowledge T he ability to manage their own learning, and to make use of scholarly reviews and primary sources (for example, refereed research articles and/or original materials appropriate to the discipline). Feedback and the marking process Assessed work will be marked and returned as soon as possible (normally within 20 working day s of submission during term time). Work will either be returned to you via Pebblepad . A selection of work submitted for each assessment will be second marked by a member of the academic team to ensure consistency of marking across assignments and modules. There is no remarking. Your marks for the work will also be available to view via MyUWE . Marks are provisional until presented at a B oard. If you have queries about marks or feedback that has been provided, please speak to the Module L eader in the first instance. Assessment Offences In order to ensure that all students are assessed fairly and equitably, it is important that markers are able to be sure it is your own work which is being assessed and that all your assessed work is done within the University rules and regulations. If a marker or invigilator believes that you have committed an assessment offence this will be reported and the allegation will have to be investigated. The University take the committing of assessment offences very seriously. Action is always taken to investigate and follow through any such cases that are reported. The process and consequences can be found within the UWE Assessment Offences policy : http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments/assessmentoffences.aspx An assessment offence is defined by the University as ‘ any action which has the potential to give a student an unfair advantage in an assessment.’ Plagiarism and collusion are examples of the use of unfair means of presenting work for assessment or of aiding another student to do so. Plagiarism – Demonstrating that you have read a wide range of material (books, journals or other sources) in writing a piece of coursework is essential, but so is ensuring that you acknowledge that work properly through correct referencing i.e. the naming of authors/sources and the use of paraphrasing, quotation marks or indented paragraphs. Collusion – You may be asked to work with other students on a project, in class or analysing data, it is essential that any work you hand in for assessment purposes is written up by you on an individual basis. The text and diagrams / pictures etc. you use must be your own. You must be particularly careful if you are sharing a computer with another student or passing information between yourself and others in an electronic format such as email that you do not use someone else’s words – or that they use your words. Non-compliance – it is important that you follow the instructions given to you by staff and adhere to the regulations of the University. For example, non-compliance could include taking unauthorised papers or items into an examination room. The University regulations are designed to ensure consistency and equity for students and to provide clarity in how they will be treated by the University in any given situation; http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments/regulationsandprocedures.aspx In addition to the academic regulations, students should pay particular attention to the IT Acceptable Use Policy as this defines what you can or cannot do for the protection of systems and of individual users. Word count policy The U niversity word count policy can be found at: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/aboutus/policies . Referencing guide Referencing is the technique used to direct readers of a piece of written work to the sources of information that have been used in the preparation of the written work. If you wish to refer to something you have read , you MUST give a reference for this material. The University Library provides advice on managing references, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing.aspx 11 . Advice and Support Academic Support is provided through a number of roles and students should seek advice from academic staff on specific matters relating to teaching and learning : Programme Leader s – programme related issues, issues impacting on a number of modules within the programme, programme specific activities happening outside modules Module Tutor – module related issues, issues that affect that module only Online resources and learning support, together with advice from Library Services on managing references and improving your learning, writing and research skills are available, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills.aspx The University also provides support to students relating to a range of matters , many of which are available online or electronically. Information Points can direct you to a range of services, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk /students/informationpoints.aspx and specialist advisers. Advice on study-related issues including assessments can be found at http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments.aspx and http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/additionalassessmentsupport.aspx if there are circumstances affecting your ability to study . Prepare for life after university with advice and support from UWE. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/careersandemployability.aspx Careers advice and guidance before, during and after your studies. Tuition fees and information on bursaries and scholarships. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/feesandfunding.aspx Wellbeing advice, from staying healthy to counselling. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/healthandwellbeing.aspx Advice and guidance for international students at UWE. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/comingtouwe/internationalstudents/internationalstudentsupport.aspx Information on student feedback and surveys. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studentexperience.aspx Link for information for the S tudent s Union and how to become a student representative. http://www.uwesu.org/representation/ Equality and Diversity http://www.uwe.ac.uk/groups/equalityanddiversity/ 12 . Insurance Guidelines The University has a range of insurance policies which provide cover to both the University, it’s employees and to students. Of primary relevance to online learning students is public liability insurance as detailed below. If you require further information please contact J ohn Elliott, Insurance and Data Protection Compliance Officer in Financial Services. Negligence Claims Against Students for Injury/Damage Caused to Another Person or Their Property: Public Liability insurance is in place to protect UWE Bristol if held legally liable. All UWE Bristol students, whether on exchange, placement or other course related activities, are covered by the University’s Public Liability insurance policy both for our liability to them and their liability to others.

Linked DOCX text excerpt (https://v3.pebblepad.co.uk/plusapi/api/File/Original?id=gw56f9Z4H59srrwq4dtHsWjydW): 861646 3235569 IPGCE Programme Handbook September 2 5 Programme Nam e : iPGCE (online learning) Programme Leader s : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Cohort: January 26 0 0 IPGCE Programme Handbook September 2 5 Programme Nam e : iPGCE (online learning) Programme Leader s : Dr Juliet Edmonds and Ass. Prof. Sarah Chicken Cohort: January 26 360045 2700655 0 0 864235 9541510 0 0 Aims of the Handbook Welcome to the School of Education and Childhood , at t he University of the West of England, Bristol. You are now a student member of this University, and as such are entitled to ma ke full use of all the learning and cultural facilities that the University has to offer. We hope you have an enjoyable and successful time at the University. The iPGCE will involve approximately 5 hours study every two weeks alongside your teaching . This handbook is designed to provide information relevant to the programme. The information in the handbook may also be provided in a number of other electronic sources and this document provides links to the definitive data sources wherever possible. Please note that the electronic version of the handbook will be kept up to date and you will be notified of any significant changes. If you have taken a hard copy of any information, please remember to refer back to the electronic version to ensure that you are working with the most up to date information. Please read this handbook carefully and retain it for future reference. As the Programme Leader it is a great pleasure to welcome you on to the programme. The teaching team will do everything they can to make the course enjoyable, stimulating and rewarding. Our aim is to give you an in-depth opportunity to explore both the theory and pra ctice of teaching . Juliet Edmonds and Sarah Chicken , Programme Leader s Contents TOC \o "1-3" \h \z \u Aims of the Handbook PAGEREF _Toc530145722 \h 2 1. Programme team information PAGEREF _Toc530145723 \h 3 2. Key Faculty Staff PAGEREF _Toc530145724 \h 3 3. Programme specific information PAGEREF _Toc530145725 \h 4 4. Assessment PAGEREF _Toc530145726 \h 6 5. Additional Information &amp; Support PAGEREF _Toc530145728 \h 11 6. Communication PAGEREF _Toc530145729 \h 11 7. UWE Blackboard PAGEREF _Toc530145730 \h 13 8 . Computing requirements PAGEREF _Toc530145733 \h 15 9 . Library Services PAGEREF _Toc530145734 \h 15 10 . Regulations/Policies PAGEREF _Toc530145735 \h 16 11 . Advice and Support PAGEREF _Toc530145736 \h 19 12 . Insurance Guidelines PAGEREF _Toc530145737 \h 20 Programme team information Juliet Edmonds and Sarah Chicken , are responsible for the management of all parts of the programme. If you have any queries or problems , t hey can be contacted as follows: ipgce.pls@uwe.ac.uk You will be assigned a tutor during each module who you can contact about your assessments . The tutors can be generally be contacted about emai l , but please remember that they will generally only be available during UK office hours (09:00 – 17:00 GMT , Monday – Friday); they will respond to queries as soon as they can ( n ote: not all tutors are full time) . Each module, is made up of a series of units which consider a distinct aspect of relevant practice or theory. Please remember that many general questions can be answered by checking Pebblepad or the UWE Bristol website, so do utilise these before getting in touch. The tutors for this programme are Dr Juliet Edmonds Ass.Prof Sarah Chicken Ipgce.pls @uwe.ac.uk Malcolm Richards Malcolm.richard@uwe.ac.uk Dr Fay Lewis Fay.lewis@uwe.ac.uk Jo Biddle Jane Carter Dave Jones Cerys The leaders of the modules in this programme are: Learning and Teaching : Contextual Inquir y: sarah.chicken@uwe.ac.uk It is your responsibility to keep in contact with the teaching staff on the programme . Please update your contact address with both the programme team and univers ity should you change address. Change your contact details via MyUWE . This is very i mportant . We will only send emails to UWE Bristol email addresses. It is your responsibility to check your UWE Bristol accounts regularly, or to arrange to have your emails redirected to a personal account. If you do not check your emails regularly , you may miss essential information regarding the modules. Programme structure: iPGCE : Key Faculty Staff Head of School of Education : Mandy Lee Associated Head of Department: Julie.buckland@uwe.ac.uk Chief external examiners from other institutions are appointed to a suite of programmes to act independently and work with the Faculty in the management of threshold academic standards, ensuring parity of approach to assessment across all awards available. Programme specific information The specific aims of the iPGCE programme are to: Critically evaluate pedagogical theories underpinning a range of best practice pedagogical approaches used internationally to inform effective evidence-informed classroom practice. Critically explore the ways in which their values, beliefs and experiences impact on themselves and their role as practitioner Critically engage with the policy, cultural and social contexts of students' lives and respond to these in practice as appropriate. Apply, critique and adapt professional understanding, skills and attributes relevant to a range of contexts Critically engage with relevant research and current debates in education to inform and develop their practice. Evidence and critically reflect on their professional competencies to identify continuing Professional development needs . Underlying principles The overall approach is student - centred and based on the assumption that individuals choosing to study at postgraduate level are highly motivated. The teaching and learning strategy is designed to promote active learning and stimulate integration, exploration, and innovation. The modules are taught through online content. This will include : narrated presentations, self-directed learning activities (including designated reading), problem-based learning, discussion forums, wikis, asynchronous feedback opportunities . All students will have a UWE tutor contact who will offer support through online discussion and interactive online seminars. Students will also be expected to undertake independent learning to build their specialist knowledge relevant to their current or future professional lives . The modules include private study weeks , when students will have an opportunity to carry out independent study and review previous taught contents and materials. The study weeks are planned in recognition of the fact that many students have professional or personal commitments in addition to their studies. Our students leave our c ourse s ready to become more reflective , creative teachers . To attain the expected standards, it is important for students to be conversant with topical areas of education . Students are also expected to engage with academic literature , which will be signposted in the modules . You are therefore expected to undertake your own independent reading an d practical learning activities to support your studies. Curriculum Structure This programme is provided through online learning and part-time study . Modules 1 and 2 are taught over a period of 2 0 weeks, which includes two weeks of private study. For each of these modules you should anticipate spending approximately five hours per two week s studying , plus time on your assessments. Please note that teaching dates may not always align with the usual university terms. Please refer to individual module guides for specific details on teaching and assessment dates. Criteria for Awards All modules o n this programme are compulsory. The programme is thus delivered as follows: MODULE 1 Teaching and Learning In this module Students will critically engage with a range of literature relating to a variety of contemporary international pedagogical approaches and their contexts, recognising their implications for learning and teaching approaches. Students will critically explore and examine how teachers evaluate the learning needs of both individuals and groups and use this to plan appropriate teaching and learning activities that promote high expectations and progress for all learners. Students will assess and evaluate the effectiveness of this work. Students will reflect upon and evaluate their own personal values, beliefs and experiences and consider the impact of these within their teaching role. Students will analyse and articulate a developed understanding of the purposes, forms and impact of Curricula. Through critical exploration and reflection, they will consider the ways in which policy, social and cultural contexts of education and those of pupils’ lives can influence their learning well-being and behaviours. ( 30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at Level 6 ) MODULE 2 Contextual Inquiry In this module students will critically reflect on their own practice in the context of their own education experiences, with particular reference to their present setting role. Students will be given tools to reflect and engage with their practice and asked to evidence this on both their professional development and how this might impact on setting practice and pupils’ outcomes within their sociocultural context. Peer support and flexibility in assessment will support students in developing a focus in their chosen area for study. These might include behaviour management, Working with parents, adapted planning. Content will be provided to drive discussion, but students will be sharing their own experiences as part of this to ensure that there is a wide range of relevant material to inform learning. (30 Credits at Masters level or 30 credits at level 6 ) Award: International Postgraduate Certificate in Education ( Masters Level) or International Professional Certificate in Education (Level 6) Assessment An assignment (also referred to as a piece of coursework) is the general name for any piece of work that is assessed and will count towards the final mark you get for a module. Assessment will be made with reference to the following Domains, which will be defined for each assessment within Module Handbooks Assessment Domains: A: Conceptual Domain (Core) The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument. B: Literature Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. C: Contextual Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors ( eg personal, locational, historical, political etc) influencing the area of study and is able to critically engage with the contextual significance. E: Ethical Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of ethical issues arising in or associated with the area of study, showing sensitive engagement with an appropriate ethical framework for interpretation of ideas or for practice. In addition, there is exploration of some of the problematics arising in relation to ethical dilemmas or decisions. F: Values Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position and where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study, and critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. G: Action Domain The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. Assessment Grading Criteria for the School of Education The modules are assessed at M level or Level 6 Masters Marking Rubrics Criteria Grade Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 Below 50 Comprehensive coverage Good coverage Satisfactory coverage Unsatisfactory coverage A Conceptual Domain ALM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study. They can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories showing the ability to synthesise and/or transform ideas in the process of developing an argument . The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. There is sustained and coherent transformation of alternative viewpoints in developing argument. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed fluently and coherently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument. The student engages critically with relevant and contrasting theoretical perspectives. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the issues under study are expressed confidently and coherently and form the basis of the development of a cohesive argument. The student engages with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are presented in an organised way. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is some development of argument. Presentation of content lacks coherence and there is a degree of irrelevance and/or inaccuracy. Little or no evidence of critical analysis and/or evaluation is present. Attempts to synthesise ideas into an argument is unsuccessful or inadequate. B Literature Domain BLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference an extensive range of relevant literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas, including critical engagement with that literature. An extensive range of relevant literature, including appropriate primary sources, has been synthesised in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas including evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of relevant and appropriate literature has been skilfully utilised in the critical analysis and dis cussion of ideas, including evidence of excellent critical engagement with the literature . A wide range of relevant and appropriate literature has been utilised in analysis and discussion of ideas . A number of examples of good critical engagement with that literature are apparent . A range of relevant literature has been used to give some analysis and discussion of ideas . Some examples of critical engagement are apparent . Reference to irrelevant literature and/or use of a narrow range of sources. Inappropriate sources used, for example non-academic or out of date. Little or no engagement with theory from literature is evident. C Contextual Domain CLM : The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc) influencing the area of study and demonstrates critically engagement with this. There is an extensive and creative synthesis of a full range of relevant contextual factors which is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is an extensive awareness and understanding of a wide range of significant contextual factors which is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is good awareness and understanding of the relevant contextual factors supported by a critical discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is some awareness and understanding of relevant contextual factors apparent and some discussion around the significance of these upon the area of study. There is limited awareness and understanding of the range of contextual factors that are relevant to the area of study and/or little awareness of the contextual significance. F Values Domain FLM : The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse the basis of their own value position, and where relevant the value position of others in relation to the area of study. They can critically evaluate associated claims to knowledge. There is full identific ation and a transformative discussion around critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. There is a full identification, and critical analysis of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a comprehensive critical evaluation of how these values shape claims to knowledge. There is g ood identification, discussion and analysis of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. There is s ome identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is some evidence of the evaluation of how values shape claims to knowledge. There is l ittle or no identification and articulat ion of the student’s own values and/or of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is little or no evidence of an awareness of associated claims to knowledge. G Action Domain GLM: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and can use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, critically evaluating professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a creative personal theory of learning and to refine practice in the workplace based on this. There is clear identification and discussion of an extensive range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. T he relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Purposeful r eflection is evident and has been used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine practice in the workplace. There is clear identification of a wide range of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is demonstration of an appropriate exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is evidence of successful reflection and this is used to develop a personal theory of learning and refine professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is a basic articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace and some exploration between theory and practice . Some reflection has taken place resulting in development of the beginnings of a personal theory and a refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice. There is some evaluation of relevant professional development. Exploration of the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is limited . There is little evidence of reflection and the development of a personal theory. There is limited reference to professional practice and the identification of issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no evaluation of professional development considerations. Level 6 Marking Rubrics Criteria Grading Bands and Descriptors 80+ 70-79 60-69 50-59 40-49 Below 40 A Conceptual Domain AL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can use and organise coherently relevant ideas, perspectives or theories to interpret and/or explore issues under study and in addition can critically analyse and/or evaluate those ideas, perspectives or theories. The exploration, interpretation and critical analysis of the ideas under study are expressed fluently and have been synthesised to form a cohesive argument which engages critically and convincingly with relevant theoretical perspectives. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives have been expressed confidently and fluently with significant interrelating of alternative viewpoints. In addition, there are clear examples of critical analysis of the relevant issues. The exploration and interpretation of relevant ideas and perspectives are successfully and coherently presented with some interrelating of alternative viewpoints. Critical analysis has been attempted successfully. There is coherence to the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some successful interpretation and exploration. Critical analysis has been attempted with moderate success. There is some coherence in the organisation of relevant ideas and perspectives. There is some exploration and evaluation/ There is minimal interpretation or critical analysis of the issues under study. There is limited reference to relevant ideas, perspectives or theories. There is lack of coherence in the presentation of ideas and perspectives. There is little or no analysis and/or evaluation. B Literature Domain BL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can reference appropriate literature and utilise it in the development of analysis and discussion of ideas. A comprehensive range of relevant literature and primary sources has been used in the critical analysis and discussion of ideas. There is also strong evidence of critical engagement with the literature, including with relevant theory. An extensive range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used. Literature is used consistently throughout the assignment in discussion and critical analysis. A good range of appropriate and relevant literature has been used in development of the key themes and points in the assignment. There is much evidence of literature used in discussion and critical analysis. A range of relevant literature has been referenced and used in relation to key points that have been made to discuss and analyse ideas. A narrow range of literature related to the subject area has been referenced and used to start to discuss ideas and to give a basic analysis. There is a degree of irrelevance and/or a limited range of sources. There is little or no use of the literature for discussion or analysis. C Contextual Domain CL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student has an awareness of the significance of relevant contextual factors (e.g. personal, locational, historical, political etc ) influencing the area of study. There is extensive awareness of a full range of the relevant contextual factors. This is supported by a critical discussion of the contextual significance of each one. There is extensive awareness of an extensive range of relevant contextual factors. There is comprehensive discussion of how these are significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a wide range of relevant contextual factors apparent. There is full discussion of how these factors may be significant to the area of study. There is an awareness of a range of relevant contextual factors. This is supported by some discussion of how each contextual factor may influence the area of study. There is minimal awareness of some relevant contextual factors. This is supported, to some extent, by a discussion of how some of these may influence the area of study. There is little or no awareness shown of relevant contextual factors. There is little or no reference to how contextual factors may influence an area of study. F Values Domain FL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can clearly identify and analyse their own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is clear identification, reflexive discussion, critical analysis and evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is a very clear identification, analysis and critical evaluation of the student’s own value position and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is sound identification, analysis and evaluation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. There is satisfactory identification and articulation of the student’s own values and, where relevant, the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Some evaluation and analysis are evident. There is limited identification and articulation of the student’s own values and an awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Minimal evaluation or analysis is evident There is little identification and articulation of the student’s own values and/or little or no awareness of the value position of others in relation to the area of study. Little or no analysis or evaluation is evident. G Action Domain GL3: The assignment demonstrates that the student can explore the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace, and use reflection to develop personal theory and refine professional practice, with due regard to issues of equity and social justice, appraising professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored from different perspectives. Authoritative reflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and refine workplace practice. There is extensive analysis of issues of equity and social justice and a critical evaluation of professional development needs and/or outcomes. The relationship between theory and practice in the workplace is explored. Wide-ranging r eflection has been used to develop a coherent personal theory of learning and to refine workplace practice. There is a full discussion of issues of equity and social justice and a relevant appraisal of professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is appropriate exploration of, and reflection on, the relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. This is used to develop a clear personal theory of learning, considered in relation to some aspects of professional practice. There is identification of a range of issues of equity and social justice and an appraisal of some professional development needs and/or outcomes. There is exploration of aspects of the relationship between theory and professional practice with evidence of reflection and emergent personal theory. There is reference to relevant refinement of practice in the workplace with some regard to the issues of equity and social justice and discussion of professional development needs/outcomes. There is basic articulation of the relationship between theory and professional practice. Some reflection has resulted in the beginnings of a personal theory. There is reference to some refinement of professional practice with minimal reference to issues of equity and social justice and some reference to professional development considerations . There is limited or no articulation of a relationship between theory and practice in the workplace. There is little evidence of reflection or the development of a personal theory and/or little or no reference to issues of equity or social justice. There is little or no reference to professional development considerations. Procedure for Submitting Assignments Online All coursework assignments for your modules will be submitted online via Pebblepad . Please take a screen shot when you get the confirmation of the uploaded document. If you are asked to submit online, you are not permitted to submit the assessment in person or via the post. Assignments are not permitted to be emailed or sent directly to the Module or Programme Leader , or another member of the teaching staff, unless specifically instructed. All assignments must be submitted by 2pm on the date of the deadline . Late Submission of Assignments You may submit your work up to 2 days from the hand-in dates with no penalty. Please note -this may be at a weekend with no techni ca l support. If you have personal circumstances that may influence your ability to submit your work, then please visit the Student Support Advisor webpage: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/studentsupportadvisers.aspx Tutors can not issue extensions . It is the student’s responsibility to make sure the tutors have access to their recordings and that the sound works. Failure to do this may mean your work goes to a retake opportunity. You are asked to pay particular attention to assessment dates and ensure you check with your academic team if you are unsure when assessments are due. Students are expected to be available to submit assessed work by the deadline . Please take care to ensure that any holiday you book allows you to meet the assessment deadlines . Presentation of work The iPGCE develops students for professional teaching careers in the primary and secondary phases and as such, the work you submit for assessments needs to reflect professional standards. This relates to the presentation of your work and also the clarity and grammar of your written English. All assignments must be submitted in English. You should also e nsure you adhere to professional communication standards in other communications around the programme , f or example when emailing academic staff or external organisations. For all text - based assignments that you submit you should: Use a standard, professional font such as Arial or Times New Roman. Use a minimum of 12 point font size, with the exception of figures and tables which may use a minimum font size of 9 point and should be legible. Align text to the left-ha nd side of the page or justify it . Doubl e or one-and-a- half space your work, with the exception of quotes, figures, tables or footnotes where single spacing can be used. Insert line breaks between paragraphs. Leave a margin (ideally 2.5cm) on both sides of the page. Spelling should be UK English. It is recommended that you check that your spell checker is set accordingly. Additional Information &amp; Support The academic year dates are published on the University website, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/aboutus/termdates.aspx For IT support please contact: IT Services https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/its/ The IT support centre is open 365 days a year and can be contacted by phone (+44 (0) 117 328 3612) at any time other than between 08:00 and 08:30 UTC on weekdays. See also: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/its/itfacilities/itsupportcentre.aspx You can also email IT for support at its.helpdesk@uwe.ac.uk between 08:00 and 16:00 UTC Monday – Friday. Communication The main communication channel used by the University and the Faculty is the UWE Bristol student portal, myUWE . The myUWE link appears at the top of the University staff and student intranet home page alongside that of the library and gives you access to the portal, where much of the information relevant to you will appear, inclu ding important announcements. M yUWE gives you access to a wide range of course information, including links to Blackboard for modules you are currently studying. Blackboard provides the main communication channel for module specific information and should be checked regularly for new content and announcements. Also from myUWE you can access your UWE Bristol student email account, which you are expected to check regularly as this is the email address that the University will use to contact you. If you do not activate this account, or chose to automatically forward emails to a different email account, then the University will not be responsible if you miss important information such as details about assessments, examinations, fees, registration etc. Please see http://info.uwe.ac.uk/myUWE/guidance/ for further information on all aspects of your myUWE portal. Changes to your Programme We strive, and are expected, to continually enhance our Programmes by responding to feedback from students and other s takeholders, ensuring the curriculum is kept up to date and our graduates are equipped with the knowledge and skills they need. We may make any such changes to our Programmes without consulting you if the changes will not involve a m aterial c hange. There may be circumstances where we have to make a m aterial c hange to the m aterial i nformation. In these circumstances, we will give you advance notice of the change and inform you about how this change will impact on your Programme and work with you to ensure you understand the reasons for, and the effect of, the change. A m aterial c hange would be a change to the programme from t he information we provided to you when we made you an offer of a place on your Programme, which includes: T he published details of your Programme , including: Programme title; entry requirements; what you will study (for example core modules); M ethod of study (for example, lectures, seminars, work placements); expected workload including number of contact hours and expected self-study; T he overall assessment strategy for your Programme (not a change to the balance of assessment within individual modules); T he award you will receive on successful completion of your Programme; L ength of your Programme; W hether your Programme is accredited by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB). Examples of reasons for making a m aterial c hange to your Programme may include: A commissioning or accrediting body requires us to add new course content to your Programme; I n response to feedback from stakeholders or our students; W here there is an insufficient number of students applying to the Programme/module of a Programme to make running the Programme or module impractical to provide a suitable student experience and/or financially viable; T o reflect the introduction of new technologies; W here staff have taken extended leave or left the University; F ollowing changes to the funding we receive or that students may be eligible for; Government legislation Where we wish to make a m aterial c hange your rights are defined within the University’s Terms and Conditions UWE Blackboard / Pebblepad The programme will be delivered via the UWE Blackboard virtual learning environment (VLE) and through the Pebblepad workbook . This will give you access to all course materials and be 3447245 13335 the main communication channel between you and the teaching sta ff. UWE Blackboard is accessed via the student portal, myUWE , accessed from the university home page at www.uwe.ac.uk myUWE gives you access to a wide range of information, including links to the UWE Library. Further information on all aspects of your myUWE portal click the link. From the myUWE link, log on using the student name and password you were sent after registering. Click on the course name to gain access to the course Accessing your course materials in Blackboard We try not to use Blackboard so you don’t have too many platforms tp contend with. Everything should be on Pebblepad . 8 . Computing requirements You will need a computer with appropriate Blackboard system requirements (minimum specification Windows 7, Mac OS x version 10.6.6 or later) and access to the i nternet in order to complete your study programme. You can also access the modules and course content via a smartphone or tablet, but this will mean you cannot use certain functions during live seminars. More information about system requirements More information about UWE Blackboard From this site, you can test your system to ensure it is compatible with Blackboard, and download the Blackboard Collaborate software. 9 . Library Services The library website is: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/library/ . All the modules include suggested reading . These readings should be seen as a starting point for your exploration of the field. Course reading materials will either be available electronically via the library or you will be given details to locate them online. For the duration of the programme , participants are entitled to full access to the range of online services offered by the UWE Bristol l ibrary. You will need your UWE Bristol log in details to access these services. If you are unfamiliar with academic libraries or using electronic resources, you will find more information here: https://www1.uwe.ac.uk/library/usingthelibrary.aspx The workbook will help you learn how to: Find relevant books, journal articles and other information sources, and access them electronically Reflect on different places to find information and how to use information sources effectively Access help and services from the UWE Bristol l ibrary You can also contact the library, including through a 24/7 live chat service . The library holds subscriptions to more than 13,000 journals and has a large collection of electronic books, which are readable online. The Library also offers access to useful databases . 10 . Regulations/Policies QAA descriptor for a higher education qualification at Level M A systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of their academic discipline, field of study or area of professional practice A comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to their own research or advanced scholarship O riginality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline C onceptual understanding that enables the student: T o evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in the discipline T o evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses. QAA descriptor for higher education at Level 6 A systematic understanding of key aspects of their field of study, including acquisition of coherent and detailed knowledge, at least some of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of defined aspects of a discipline A n ability to deploy accurately established techniques of analysis and enquiry within a discipline C onceptual understanding that enables the student: to devise and sustain arguments, and/or to solve problems, using ideas and techniques, some of which are at the forefront of a discipline o to describe and comment upon particular aspects of current research, or equivalent advanced scholarship, in the discipline A n appreciation of the uncertainty, ambiguity and limits of knowledge T he ability to manage their own learning, and to make use of scholarly reviews and primary sources (for example, refereed research articles and/or original materials appropriate to the discipline). Feedback and the marking process Assessed work will be marked and returned as soon as possible (normally within 20 working day s of submission during term time). Work will either be returned to you via Pebblepad . A selection of work submitted for each assessment will be second marked by a member of the academic team to ensure consistency of marking across assignments and modules. There is no remarking. Your marks for the work will also be available to view via MyUWE . Marks are provisional until presented at a B oard. If you have queries about marks or feedback that has been provided, please speak to the Module L eader in the first instance. Assessment Offences In order to ensure that all students are assessed fairly and equitably, it is important that markers are able to be sure it is your own work which is being assessed and that all your assessed work is done within the University rules and regulations. If a marker or invigilator believes that you have committed an assessment offence this will be reported and the allegation will have to be investigated. The University take the committing of assessment offences very seriously. Action is always taken to investigate and follow through any such cases that are reported. The process and consequences can be found within the UWE Assessment Offences policy : http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments/assessmentoffences.aspx An assessment offence is defined by the University as ‘ any action which has the potential to give a student an unfair advantage in an assessment.’ Plagiarism and collusion are examples of the use of unfair means of presenting work for assessment or of aiding another student to do so. Plagiarism – Demonstrating that you have read a wide range of material (books, journals or other sources) in writing a piece of coursework is essential, but so is ensuring that you acknowledge that work properly through correct referencing i.e. the naming of authors/sources and the use of paraphrasing, quotation marks or indented paragraphs. Collusion – You may be asked to work with other students on a project, in class or analysing data, it is essential that any work you hand in for assessment purposes is written up by you on an individual basis. The text and diagrams / pictures etc. you use must be your own. You must be particularly careful if you are sharing a computer with another student or passing information between yourself and others in an electronic format such as email that you do not use someone else’s words – or that they use your words. Non-compliance – it is important that you follow the instructions given to you by staff and adhere to the regulations of the University. For example, non-compliance could include taking unauthorised papers or items into an examination room. The University regulations are designed to ensure consistency and equity for students and to provide clarity in how they will be treated by the University in any given situation; http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments/regulationsandprocedures.aspx In addition to the academic regulations, students should pay particular attention to the IT Acceptable Use Policy as this defines what you can or cannot do for the protection of systems and of individual users. Word count policy The U niversity word count policy can be found at: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/aboutus/policies . Referencing guide Referencing is the technique used to direct readers of a piece of written work to the sources of information that have been used in the preparation of the written work. If you wish to refer to something you have read , you MUST give a reference for this material. The University Library provides advice on managing references, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills/referencing.aspx 11 . Advice and Support Academic Support is provided through a number of roles and students should seek advice from academic staff on specific matters relating to teaching and learning : Programme Leader s – programme related issues, issues impacting on a number of modules within the programme, programme specific activities happening outside modules Module Tutor – module related issues, issues that affect that module only Online resources and learning support, together with advice from Library Services on managing references and improving your learning, writing and research skills are available, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studysupport/studyskills.aspx The University also provides support to students relating to a range of matters , many of which are available online or electronically. Information Points can direct you to a range of services, see: http://www1.uwe.ac.uk /students/informationpoints.aspx and specialist advisers. Advice on study-related issues including assessments can be found at http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/assessments.aspx and http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/academicadvice/additionalassessmentsupport.aspx if there are circumstances affecting your ability to study . Prepare for life after university with advice and support from UWE. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/careersandemployability.aspx Careers advice and guidance before, during and after your studies. Tuition fees and information on bursaries and scholarships. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/feesandfunding.aspx Wellbeing advice, from staying healthy to counselling. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/healthandwellbeing.aspx Advice and guidance for international students at UWE. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/comingtouwe/internationalstudents/internationalstudentsupport.aspx Information on student feedback and surveys. http://www1.uwe.ac.uk/students/studentexperience.aspx Link for information for the S tudent s Union and how to become a student representative. http://www.uwesu.org/representation/ Equality and Diversity http://www.uwe.ac.uk/groups/equalityanddiversity/ 12 . Insurance Guidelines The University has a range of insurance policies which provide cover to both the University, it’s employees and to students. Of primary relevance to online learning students is public liability insurance as detailed below. If you require further information please contact J ohn Elliott, Insurance and Data Protection Compliance Officer in Financial Services. Negligence Claims Against Students for Injury/Damage Caused to Another Person or Their Property: Public Liability insurance is in place to protect UWE Bristol if held legally liable. All UWE Bristol students, whether on exchange, placement or other course related activities, are covered by the University’s Public Liability insurance policy both for our liability to them and their liability to others.
